* About
* Direct Connect
* Newsletter
* Contact
* Sponsor
* News
* Features
* Video
* Direct Connect
* Dilbert
* goBeyondProfit
**Local Communities**
Albany
Athens
Atlanta
Columbus
Gainesville
LaGrange
Middle Georgia
Newnan
Rome
Savannah
Tifton
Valdosta
Home ›
News ›
Feb 2024
More than $9.4 Million in Grants Awarded for Hands-on Health Care in Georgia
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Staff Report From Georgia CEO
Thursday, February 22nd, 2024
The Georgia Baptist Health Care Ministry Foundation (GBHCMF) has awarded $8,417,791 to 82 clinics, faith-based health care providers and other nonprofits involved in providing hands-on health care services primarily to underserved communities across the state of Georgia in its 2024 grant cycle.
Grant recipients cover a wide range of hands-on health care services including medical and dental clinics, mobile clinics, pregnancy centers and nursing education programs from virtually every part of the state, serving both rural and urban patients alike.
"From Atlanta to Waycross, Rome to Brunswick, and Athens to Valdosta, millions of people have received neighborhood-level health care services throughout our state who may have never been able to get health care otherwise," said GBHCMF Executive Director Larry Wynn.
"We applaud our grant recipients for carrying out the Great Commission of Jesus Christ. We believe Christ came not so be served, but to serve, and that's what these clinics and providers do for people all across the state of Georgia. These grants exist to demonstrate the love of Jesus, ensuring that all Georgians have access to life-giving, quality hands-on health care and by offering a better quality of life through needed health care ministries," he said.
Wynn said since the foundation began its ministry in 2005, the GBHCMF has awarded $83,218,921 in 1,016 grants for hands-on, nonprofit healthcare in Georgia. Other statistics include:
* More than 5 million people affected,
* More than 178,000 volunteers,
* 23,908 pregnancies carried to term,
* 23,304 professions of faith,
* 3,132 baptisms, and
* $472,796,158 in estimated value of services provided.
Wynn said a complete list of 2024 grant recipients is available online on the GBHCMF website.
* Email
* Print
### Get the Daily Augusta CEO Briefing
The Augusta CEO Briefing is a daily email newsletter that contains the day’s top business news headlines and a summary of each day’s feature. Subscribe Today.
### About Augusta CEO
Augusta CEO is a daily publication that focuses exclusively on business issues in Augusta. We invite you to learn more about how to expose your business to others in the community. Contact us today to receive more information about editorial, video and promotional exposure at Augusta CEO.
Augusta CEO is part of the Georgia CEO Network which includes newswires, newsletters, databases and local web sites in cities across Georgia:  Albany, Athens, Atlanta, Augusta, Columbus, Gainesville, LaGrange, Middle Georgia, Newnan, Rome, Savannah, Tifton, and Valdosta.
Augusta CEO
:   About / Contact / Sponsor / Newsletter
Sections
:   News / Features / Video / Direct Connect
Submit
:   Feedback / Press Releases & News
Connect
:   Twitter / Facebook
Copyright © 2026 Augusta CEO. All rights reserved. Terms & Privacy.