* CT.gov Home
* Connecticut Department of Economic and Community Development
* ARTE-accesible Grants
* Current: Eligibility
Provided by: Connecticut Department of Economic and Community Development
Eligibility
-----------
Applicants may only apply for one (1) ARTE-accesible grant per fiscal year.
All activities associated with the grant must be conducted in Connecticut.
Applicants to this program are not restricted from applying to and receiving funding from other COA grant programs for which they may be eligible, as long as those funds support distinctly separate projects or activities.
**Eligible Applicants** (see full definitions below)
* Connecticut Arts Organizations
* Connecticut Municipal Arts Departments
* Arts Venues of a Connecticut College/University
**Connecticut Arts Organization** - defined as a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization whose core mission, vision, focus and legal purpose, as stated in its Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, articulate a commitment to create, perform, present or promote artistic activities\* AND at least 51 percent of its annual fiscal expenditures is allocated specifically to support artistic activities, arts programming, services or arts-based initiatives.*\*Artistic activities shall include, but are not limited to, music, theater, dance, painting, sculpture, literature, film and allied arts and crafts.*
Additional criteria required for an Arts Organization applying to the ARTE-accesible grant program include:
* be registered to do business in Connecticut as a legal nonprofit entity
* primary place of business and operations must be in Connecticut
**CT Municipal Arts Department** - defined as a Connecticut municipal government entity, such as a Commission on the Arts, Department of Cultural Affairs or other specifically designated arts office with a purpose to conduct and/or support artistic activities, arts programming, services or arts-based initiatives.
Additional criteria required for a Municipal Arts Department applying to the ARTE-accesible grant program include:
* have a dedicated allocation in the municipal budget for arts and cultural activities, programming, services or arts-based initiatives
* employ at least one (1) professional staff person dedicated to this office with the position funded at no less than 20 hours per week.
**Arts Venue of a CT College / University** - defined as a Connecticut college or university with an affiliated arts program or venue that meets the following criteria:
* core mission, vision, and focus is to create, perform, present or promote artistic activities.
* have at least one (1) full-time staff member responsible for the management and operations of the venue and/or affiliated arts program.
* more than 50% of its audience is drawn from the general public, excluding students and faculty.
* provide annual operating income and expense figures for its arts program/venue apart from the college university.
* receives a broad financial base of support from outside sources (i.e. can provide required cash match beyond staff time and  overhead provided by the college or university.
Note: Applicants that receive Directed Local Funds (aka Line Items) are eligible to apply; however, Line Items must provide a 1:1 cash match for the proposed activities.
**Ineligible Applicants**:
* incomplete or late submissions
* past due final reports from any past COA program.
* any entity not noted above, such as for-profit businesses, arts orgs that do not have 501(c)(3) status, non-arts 501(c)(3) organizations, etc.
**DUNS Number Requirement**
All applicants must include their DUNS number when applying for a grant form the Connecticut Office of the Arts. The DUNS (Data Universal Numbering System) number is a unique nine-character identification number that is required on applications for any grant administered by COA that includes National Endowment for the Arts dollars. Obtaining your DUNS number is a free, straightforward process. For more information, click here.
Program Guidelines:
* Overview
* How to Apply
* Timeline and Process
* Grant Requirements
* FAQ