Current Funding Opportunities
-----------------------------
### **MAY**
**American Lamb Board Producer Program** **|** **Deadline: May 1st**
***Goals:*** The project will provide an opportunity for **150 sheep producers** to identify production inefficiencies and to develop conservation plans. Producers will also modify management plans through technology implementation to mitigate emissions and improve their overall productivity.  Enrolled producers will work with a Technical Service Provider (TSP) to establish operational plans, implement recommended changes and organize farm data to identify best management practices for productivity improvements.
***Eligibility Factors:*** To be eligible for the program, applicants must: Be a U.S. sheep or lamb producer, have farm records with USDA Farm Service Agency, complete required paperwork (AD-2047), certify: you are not a foreign entity, you are not double-funded (e.g., not using EQIP for the same practices), agree to share farm data, participate in workshops/webinars.
***Funding Limitations:*** Producers enrolled in the program will be **paid up to $23,000 to develop and implement improved sheep and land stewardship management plans**.   Additional enrollment benefits:
* Technical Service Provider
* Electronic livestock identification system
* Soil sampling
* NSIP ultrasound and genetic consulting services
***Anticipated Timeline:*** Chosen producers will be notified by June 1st, 2026. The program end date is September 30th, 2028.
**MDAR Food Security Infrastructure Grant (FSIG) Program** **|** **Deadline: May 4th**
***Goals:*** FSIG supports capital infrastructure and equipment projects that build a stronger, more resilient, and more equitable food system within Massachusetts.
**Funded projects may:**
* Increase local food production and consumption
* Expand processing, storage, and distribution capacity
* Improve food access in commercial and noncommercial settings
* Strengthen food system resilience and emergency preparedness
Projects that directly benefit underserved and under-resourced communities will receive priority consideration.
***Eligibility Factors:*** To be eligible, applicants must:
* Be located and operating in Massachusetts
* Have operated for at least three (3) consecutive years
* Operate or support a commercial or noncommercial food operation that contributes to the Commonwealth’s food system and serves Massachusetts residents
***Funding Limitations: S***elected participants may receive an award ranging from $10,000 to $500,000 on a reimbursement basis.Participants are required to provide a minimum 20% cash match of eligible project costs.
***Anticipated Timeline:*** Estimated award date is summer 2026. The contract end date is June 30, 2027, with no options for extensions.
**MDAR Climate Smart Agriculture Program** **|** **Deadline: May 7th**
***Goals:*** Farms can apply for funding to support projects in **food safety, composting, environmental improvements, and energy efficiency or renewable energy**. These projects typically involve capital improvements, such as installing new infrastructure, purchasing durable equipment, or upgrading farm systems that improve long-term efficiency and resilience.
***Eligibility Factors:*** This program is for agricultural operations within Massachusetts on property that is in active agricultural use and managed by the applicant for a minimum of the previous three years prior to the application date. Applicants who have been operating an agricultural business for a period of one to three years, and have annual gross sales of at least $10,000 may be eligible for reduced funding amounts.
***Funding Limitations:*** Award amounts range from $10,000 - $150,000, depending on how many years in business. A 20% match is required for each project area in which funds are applied for.
***Anticipated Timeline:*** Estimated award date is August 2026. All projects must be completed by June 30th, 2027.
**MDAR Urban Agriculture Program** **|** **Deadline: May 18th**
***Goals:*** The purpose of the MDAR Urban Agriculture Program is to advance Commonwealth goals and objectives, leverage collective resources, and support commercial projects designed to increase the production, processing, and marketing of produce grown and sold in urban centers across the Commonwealth. Expenditures will promote strategies to address food insecurity and to increase access of fresh, local produce in urban neighborhoods with a high concentration of low-moderate income residents.
***Eligibility Factors:*** Applicants must be located within Massachusetts and must operate or support a commercial urban agriculture enterprise or community food production initiative. Eligible applicants include municipalities, federal or state recognized Tribal governments, nonprofit organizations with IRS 501(c)(3) status, public or nonprofit educational institutions, and commercial urban farms with at least three (3) years of documented urban farming experience. Community Garden and Community Food Production proposals may only be submitted by municipalities or nonprofit organizations.
***Funding Limitations:*** Award maximum ranges from $25,000 - $100,000 depending on project area. Commercial urban agriculture and community food production projects require a 25% cash match for requests over $15,000; land acquisition projects require a 25% cash match regardless of amount.
***Anticipated Timeline:*** All projects must be completed by June 30th, 2027. Estimated award date is August 2026.
**MDAR Food Ventures Grant Program** **|** **Deadline: May 28th**
***Goals:*** The overall goal of the Massachusetts Food Ventures Program (MFVP) is to increase access to healthy, affordable food options and improve economic opportunities for low to moderate income communities. The MFVP will provide funding through grants to support food ventures, sited primarily in or near communities of low or moderate income, including Gateway Cities and rural communities.
***Eligibility Factors:*** Massachusetts municipalities, Massachusetts non-profit or for-profit organizations, individual residents of Massachusetts may apply.
***Funding Limitations:*** Awards will range from $25,000 to $250,000. This is a reimbursement grant and requires a 20% cash match.
***Anticipated Timeline:*** Estimated award date is September 2026. All projects must be finished by June 30, 2027.
**NATOORA Farm Fund** **|** **Deadline: May 31st**
***Goals:*** The Farm Fund grants are open to farmers who are 35 and under in Australia, Europe, the U.S. and the UK who are committed to agroecological cultivation methods. Applicants should demonstrate how their project reinforces soil health, cultural & identity, biodiversity, innovation, accessible scale and education, and how a grant would reinforce the long-term resilience and impact of their work.
***Eligibility Factors:*** Applicant must be aged 35 or younger at the time of application and based in Australia, Europe, the U.S. or the UK. Must be farming on a small scale (less than 100 acres) and proposing a horticulture project growing directly in the soil. Previous recipients are ineligible until 5 years have passed since last successful application. Projects must have a clear long term plan.
***Funding Limitations:*** $150,000 total funding available. Grants will be awarded at $30,000, $15,000 and $8,000 levels.
***Anticipated Timeline:*** Finalists will be contacted in late June of 2026. Awards announced October 2026.
### **June**
**New England Food Vision Prize** **| Letter of Interest Deadline: June 5th**
***Goals:*** The 2026 New England Food Vision Prize will award up to $1.5 million to collaborative farm to school initiatives and local sourcing efforts across the region. Winning Prizes will increase student access to healthy, locally produced ingredients and build consistent and reliable demand from schools, colleges, and universities.
***Eligibility Factors:*** **Primary Applicant**
The primary applicant is the lead partner on the Prize and if awarded, will be responsible for managing and distributing funds amongst other partners on the team. The primary applicant is also responsible for providing written and verbal reports to the foundation.Primary applicant must be one of the following:
* K–12 schools, school districts, colleges, universities, and schools with 501(c)(3) public charity status
* 501(c)(3) public charities
* Governmental entities or affiliated organizations that are eligible to receive 501(c)(3) funding
* Federally recognized Tribes
* Indian Tribal governments (IRS, section 7871)
* Organizations applying via a 501(c)(3) public charity fiscal sponsor
**Applicant Teams**
We encourage collaborative approaches to Prize projects. At least one educational institution (K–12 or higher education) must be identified as both a direct beneficiary and an active partner in the project, and a letter of support from this institution will be required. All applicants and project partners must be based in New England.
Prize applicant teams may include:
* Colleges and universities
* K–12 schools or school districts
* Farms / fishers / producers
* Food hubs and aggregators
* Processors
* Network organizations
* Community-based organizations
* Municipal departments/initiatives
* Additional institutions (ex: healthcare)
* For-profit business (\* ineligible to be a primary applicant)
***Funding Limitations:*** $1.5 million total funding available. Prize requests can range from $25,000 – $100,000.
***Anticipated Timeline:*** Application period opens June 30th, 2026; application deadlineis August 7th, 2026. Awards will be announced October 2026. Awardees have two years to complete the project.
### **ROLLING APPLICATIONS, NO DEADLINE**
**Dairy Promotion Grant for Farmers**
***Goals:*** This grant program provides funding to eligible individuals and organizations for activities that improve public perception of dairy farming and/or increase consumption of local dairy products.
***Eligibility Factors:*** Eligible applicants include:
* Dairy farmers in Connecticut, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont (applicants must be associated with the production of cow’s milk)
* Retired dairy farmers or agriculture advocates, in partnership with an active dairy producer
* Agriculture organizations (FFA, Farm Bureau, 4-H, etc.) within our five state region
***Funding Limitations:*** $2,400 in funding annually is available per farm.
***Anticipated Timeline:*** Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. Apply at least six weeks prior to your event or activity. Applicants will be notified by email of approval or denial, as well as the total funding amount. You can expect a decision within three weeks of submitting your grant application. Approved applicants will receive funding approximately two weeks after we receive your completed grant paperwork, which includes an LOA, W9, and other documents. Projects must be completed by December 31, 2025. Grant recipients are required to submit a grant report after completion of the event or activity to remain eligible in the next calendar year.
**Black Farmers Learn**
***Goals:*** The *Black Farmers Learn* educational subsidywill pay tuition or registration fees of up to $500 for Black farmers or land stewards who wish to expand their knowledge or skills via a self-identified training program.  This program honors education from structured sources available to the public; this includes schools, farming institutions, land or agricultural collectives, and conferences or training that offer to deepen skills and increase farming capacity.
***Eligibility Factors:*** This program is available to Black farmers or land stewards who are members of the Northeast Farmers of Color (NEFOC) Network and are pursuing publicly available, structured education programs.
***Funding Limitations:*** This program will pay tuition or registration fees up to $500.
***Anticipated Timeline:*** Applications are accepted the first week of every month.
**Farmer Self-Care Award**
***Goals:*** The goal of this award is to support farmers' self-care needs. Examples include dinner with friends and family, deep tissue massage, gym or yoga membership, therapy sessions, family fun day and more.
***Eligibility Factors:*** Farmers and ranchers operating in the contiguous United States, including all U.S. territories, have an annual farming income of $1,000 or more, and have never received a Real Farmer Care self-care award before.
***Funding Limitations:*** Awards are $100 per applicant. Grants will be distributed via Visa/Mastercard e-gift cards.
***Anticipated Timeline:*** Applications will be accepted and reviewed in the order in which they are received. Funds will be awarded when available and award distribution will occur in seasonal rounds. Applications submitted after the initial window or beyond fund availability will be considered for funding in future rounds.
**Black Farmer Fund Rapid Response Fund**
***Goals:*** The goal of this award is to provide financial support to Black Farmers and Food Business Owners experiencing a one-time emergency.
***Eligibility Factors:*** Black Farmers and Food Business Owners operating in the Northeast (Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Vermont, and Rhode Island). The business must be in operation for at least one year. The business has demonstrated engagement, work and support with community members.
***Funding Limitations:*** Up to $10,000 awards granted for general emergencies. For 2025 Funding Freeze/Cancellation emergency award maximum is $50,000.
***Anticipated Timeline:*** Four rounds of funding available per year. See website for timeline.
Image
Need grant writing assistance?
SEMAP can help you with your grant application process in several ways. We can provide start-to-finish guidance, application review, letters of support, and online resources.
APPLY HERE
Sign up for our email newsletter, The Vine!
-------------------------------------------
Stay in the loop