Creative Aging Grants
=====================
Home › Grants › Find a Grant › Grants for Organizations › Creative Aging Grants
Overview
--------
Creative Aging grants support arts education and arts-based community building for older adults.
Nonprofit organizations, municipalities, and educational institutions may apply.
You may apply for any amount up to $6,000. The average award is $4,000.
**Status: Closed. Reopens early August 2026**
### Grant Contact
**Troy Hickman** 802.402.4496
[email protected]
**Office Hours**
Schedule a call with Troy.
### What does this grant fund?
Expand or Collapse Accordion
These grants support skill-based instruction alongside social engagement through the arts for older adults aged 60+. Projects are led by experienced teaching artists in partnership with applicants, which may be, for example, arts organizations, senior centers, libraries, social service organizations, or other nonprofits. Priority is given to projects facilitated by Vermont artists, especially those that appear on VAC’s Creative Aging Teaching Artist Roster, and to projects that align with the Council’s approach to creative aging.
Examples of projects include:
* hiring a teaching artist to lead an interactive series of photography workshops with a local senior center
* partnering with an arts organization to facilitate remote workshops for older adults in their homes, supplying materials, providing opportunities for social engagement, and giving support to caregivers
* hiring teaching artists or mentors to engage older adults in the process of capturing and documenting a series of stories or poems at a local library, arts organization, or community center
For real examples of previously funded projects, see the program’s most recent grantees and read our Grant in Action feature.
### How to apply
Expand or Collapse Accordion
* Review this page and all the necessary materials carefully:
+ Guidelines
+ Application preview
+ Tips and tutorials
* Connect with a teaching artist or local arts organization to help facilitate your project. Use these resources to connect with trained teaching artists:
+ The Council’s Teaching Artist Roster. Use the categories to sort for Creative Aging Certified profiles, teaching artists who have trained with Lifetime Artsand/or Teaching Artists Connect to design creative aging activities.
+ The Clemmons Family Farm’s Creative Aging Teaching Artist Roster, whose members have are trained to lead arts experiences with older adults while drawing on their expertise as African diaspora culture bearers.
- You may apply with projects led by teaching artists not on these rosters.
- Teaching artist fees vary from artist to artist.
* Document your agreement with the artist or arts organization regarding a scope of work, fees, materials needed for the project as well as a general timeline for the project. If you are working with an artist not on the Council’s roster, ask the artist for documents outlining their artistry, experience teaching, and experiences collaborating. Review the Application Preview to help you and the artist prepare the proposal
* If you don’t already have a user account in our grant portal, create an account (approval takes 1-2 business days)
* Request your free Unique Entity ID if your organization does not already have one
* Apply by the deadline listed on this page. Consult the timeline table below for other important dates such as funding notification and period of grant activity.
### Guidelines, application, deadline
Expand or Collapse Accordion
*These materials from the previous grant cycle are provided for reference only. New materials will be released when the program reopens.*
### Guidelines and Application
Application closed. Reopens early August 2026.
FY26 Guidelines
FY26 Application Preview
### Deadline
Oct. 19, 2026
### Grant Portal
New user? Be sure to register! Your account will be
reviewed and approved in 1-2 business days.
### Get Your UEI
How to request your free Unique Entity ID
### Tips and tutorials
Expand or Collapse Accordion
### Tutorial Video
Watch a tutorial video for guidance on the application process.
### Teaching artist rosters
Expand or Collapse Accordion
Consult these rosters to find a teaching artist for your Creative Aging project.
Vermont’s Creative Aging Teaching Artist Roster
Clemmons Family Farm Roster
Other Vermont Teaching Artists
### Reporting
Expand or Collapse Accordion
### Final Report
We ask grant recipients to submit final reports about their work.
Due 30 days after project completion.
Log in to the grant portal for more information.
Final Report Preview
Grant Timeline
--------------
|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| Application opens | Early August 2026 |
| Application deadline | Oct. 19, 2026 |
| Funding notification | Mid-December 2026 |
| Grant period | Jan. 5, 2027 - Aug. 31, 2027 |
| Funding arrival | Within 60 days of receipt of grantee paperwork |
| Final report deadline | 30 days after end of grant period in contract |
Funding
-------
Creative Aging Grants are funded by the State of Vermont and the National Endowment for the Arts.
Accessibility
-------------
The Council accepts grant applications via an online form. If you require an alternate format or assistance to access the application, please contact the grant program manager listed above or Michele Bailey, accessibility coordinator by email or at 802.402.4614. Voice and relay calls welcome.
admin-place August 23, 2022