* Visit Our Other Global Regions
+ Grants Office Australia
+ Grants Office Canada
+ Grants Office Europe
+ Grants Office Latin America
* Manage Profile
+ Edit Preferences
+ Advanced Search
+ Watchlist
+ Research Report
* Help
+ Training
* Contact Us
Recent Grants
=============
|  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Anne & Philip Glatfelter III Family Foundation (Pennsylvania)  Add to Research Report      Add to Watchlist      Email this Grant | | |
* **Grants Office Grantwriting service fee is currently unavailable for this grant
Get more information on grantwriting**
|  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| CFDA# |  | Funder Type Corporate Foundation |
| IT Classification C - Funds little to no technology |  |  |
### Authority
Anne & Philip Glatfelter III Family Foundation
### Summary
The Anne & Philip Glatfelter III Family Foundation supports projects in the following subject areas:
+ Art museums
+ Arts and culture
+ Arts education
+ Christianity
+ College preparation
+ Early childhood education
+ Education
+ Higher education
+ Human services
+ Middle school education
+ Orchestral music
+ Performing arts
+ Theater
+ Youth services
The following populations are of particular interest:
+ Adults
+ Children and youth
+ Low-income people
+ Students
### History of Funding
The foundation has funded 369 grants to 125 organizations totaling $6,342,802 over the past five years. Past awardees include: Boys and Girls Club of Harrisburg, Inc., York Symphony Orchestra, Communities in Schools of Pennsylvania, Play on Philly, Kids Smiles Inc, Central Pennsylvania Youth Ballet, and Pennsylvania Breast Cancer Coalition.
### Additional Information
The foundation was established in 2001 in Pennsylvania. The foundation does not maintain a website. Please contact the funder to verify eligibility prior to submission of a full application. Funds may be used for general support.
### Contacts
### Anne & Philip Glatfelter III Family Foundation Staff
Name:Anne & Philip Glatfelter III Family Foundation Staff
Department:
Company:
Address:
City/State/Zip:,
Telephone:717-534-3225
Fax:
Email:
URL:
Misc Info:
* ### Eligibility Details
Eligible applicants are nonprofit agencies operating in Pennsylvania.
### Deadline Details
No deadline information is provided. Contact the foundation directly to request a copy of the required application form.
### Award Details
Award amounts vary up to $100,000. Most awards are between $10,000 and $25,000.
### Related Webcasts
+ Funding Classroom Technology to Empower Students and Teachers - Sponsored by Panasonic
-
Playback Available
+ Maximizing Technology-friendly Workforce Development Grants - Sponsored by Panasonic
-
Playback Available
+ Funding Data-driven Workforce Development Projects - Sponsored by NetApp
-
Playback Available
### You have not selected any grants to Add
Please select at least one grant to continue.
Okay
Selections Added
----------------
The selected grant has been added to your
.
Okay
Research Reports
----------------
One of the benefits of purchasing an UPstream® subscription is
generating professional research reports in Microsoft® Word or Adobe® PDF
format
Generating research reports allows you to capture all the grant data as
well as a nice set of instructions on how to read these reports
Close
Subscribe to UPstream®
Watchlists and Grant Progress
-----------------------------
With an UPstream®
subscription you can add grants to your
own personal Watchlist. By adding grants to your watchlist, you will
receive emails about updates to your grants, be able to track your
grant's progress from watching to awards, and can easily manage any
step in the process through simplified workflows.
Close
Subscribe to UPstream®
Email this Grant
----------------
With an UPstream®
subscription, you can email grant details, a research report,
and relevant links to yourself or others so that you never lose your
details again. Emailing grants is a great way to keep a copy of the
current details so that when you are ready to start seeking funding
you already know where to go
Close
Subscribe to UPstream®
Grants Office empowers communities to advance their projects in the public and private sectors through grants.
Navigation
* About Us
* Services
* Partner With Us
* Job Opportunities
Grants Intelligence
* Grantcasts
* FUNDED Magazine
* Grant News
Connect
© 2026 Grants Office, LLC
| 510 Clinton Square, Rochester, NY 14604
Website Designed by Foremost Media, Inc. ®
| Login