* Skip to main navigation
* Skip to main page content
* Skip to right sidebar content
* Skip to footer content
menu
* PROGRAMS
+ APPRENTICESHIPS
+ ARTS IN THE CAPITOL
+ ARTS IN HEALTH
+ ARTS LEARNING SUMMIT
+ CONGRESSIONAL ART COMPETITION
+ CREATIVE CAREER LAB
+ MAINE CREATES
+ POET LAUREATE
+ POETRY OUT LOUD
+ PUBLIC ART
+ SHARED TABLES, SHARED STORIES
+ TRADITIONAL & FOLK ARTS
* Funding
+ Application Portal
+ Fellowship Awards
+ Grants Overview
+ Make it Maine
+ Past Awards
+ Percent For Art
+ Reviewer Resources
+ Grants Help
* Resources
+ APPRAISERS & CONSERVATORS
+ ARTIST & ORGANIZATIONS DIRECTORY (ARCHIVE)
+ Assets For Artists
+ CALENDAR OF EVENTS
+ CREATIVEGROUND Directory
+ News & Opportunities
+ Veteran Artist Resources
+ Teaching Artist Resources
* Artist & Organizations Directory
* About Us
+ Arts Accessibility
+ Contact Us
+ Commission News
+ History/Timeline
+ Public Meetings
+ Publications
+ Strategic Plan
+ NEWS & OPPORTUNITIES
+ Newsletter Sign Up
Register/Sign in
Funding
-------
* Application Portal
* Grants Overview
* Grants Awarded
* Percent For Art
* Become a Panelist
* Grants Help
---
* Home
* Funding
* Creative Communities Grant
Creative Communities Grant
|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| **Current Status:** CLOSED  **Application Portal Opens:** Febuary 25, 2026\*  **Deadline:** March 30, 2026 (5:00 p.m.)\*  **Required Match:** 1-to-1 cost share/match consisting of cash, donations, and/or in-kind contributions.  **Grant Award:** up to $7,000  **Award Cycle:** July 1, 2026 to June 30, 2027  **Eligibility:** 501(c)(3) organizations, K-12 schools, municipalities, and tribal entities may apply. Public schools must apply through their school district. Projects must be community-focused arts and/or cultural activities, open to the public, and occur from July 1, 2026 – June 30, 2027  \* Subject to Change | **Supporting Documents**   **PDF of Grant Guidelines** |
Overview of Creative Communities Grant for Fiscal Year 2027
-----------------------------------------------------------
The **Creative Communities Grant** supports creative placemaking initiatives that transform Maine communities through arts and culture. This program funds arts-based projects that respond to community needs and strengthen local identity, making Maine's communities more vibrant, connected, and desirable places to live, visit, work, and play.
By integrating artists and culture bearers into community development, this grant enables projects that shape the social, physical, and cultural character of place. All activities must be community-based, directly benefit the public, and remain open and accessible to all.
Creative Communities Grant Goals:
* Expand community access to the arts.
* Support and address community needs.
* Promote the unique identities of ME’s communities as places people want to live, visit, work, and play.
* Promote inclusion of artists and culture bearers in community projects.
Eligibility Requirements
------------------------
An applicant who meets these criteria may apply:
* The applicant is a nonprofit organization with 501(c)(3) tax-exempt status from the Internal Revenue Service, a school, or is a unit of municipal, county or tribal government, legally established in the state of Maine. *Non-501(c)(3) applicants cannot apply under a fiscal sponsor or agent.*
* The applicant operates within the state of Maine.
* Has a valid UEI number (www.sam.gov). You cannot receive a grant without a valid UEI.
* If applicable, has completed all Final Reports required by the Maine Arts Commission for previous awards.
* Is compliant with organization requirements on both the state and federal levels.
The funded activities proposed in your application must be in full accordance with the U.S. Constitution, federal law, state law, and public policy requirements including, but not limited to, those protecting free speech, religious liberty, public welfare, the environment, and those prohibiting discrimination.
##### Eligible Expenses
Awards may be used for activities that support your project goals for things such as:
* Materials or equipment;
* Productions or installations;
* Planning and preparation;
* Tours or Exhibition costs;
* Workshops;
* Hiring artists;
* Collaborative programming with other organizations;
* Costs for ensuring your programs provide accommodations for people of all abilities.
##### Ineligible Expenses:
* Debt or loan repayment;
* Equipment purchases over $5000;
* Activities for which academic credit is given;
* Activities that have already been completed outside of the grant period;
* Activities not available to the general public;
* Activities outside Maine;
* Lobbying of fundraising efforts;
* General operating business expenses;
* Capital projects, including the construction or renovation of buildings, or additions to buildings;
* Development efforts, such as social events or benefits or any fundraising expenses;
* Student projects for educational credit;
* Activities that support or oppose a particular political party or candidate for public office;
If any application is submitted that includes any ineligible tasks or activities, that portion of the application will be ineligible for funding and may, depending on the extent to which it affects the application, render the entire application ineligible for funding.
How To Apply?
-------------
All applications and materials must be submitted using the online **Maine Cultural Access Portal**. If you are interested in applying, we encourage you to carefully review these details and call us with questions prior to beginning an application. It’s important to give yourself plenty of time to write a strong application, so be sure to start the process early!
* Answer the below application questions. (All questions are to be completed in the application portal.)
+ PROJECT SUMMARY:
* Describe what you're doing, when, and where it will happen. (1200 characters)
* Describe who will be involved (collaborators, artists, culture bearers).   (1200 characters)
* What are the goals for the project? What do you hope to achieve? (1000 characters)
+ COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT & ACCESS:
* Describe the audience who will participate in or benefit from this project. (1000 characters)
* How will this project benefit the well-being of your community or help solve a community challenge?   (1200 characters)
* How are you including people who are underserved or under-resourced in the arts? (1200 characters)
+ PROJECT CAPACITY:
* How will you manage and carry out this project? Include your anticipated timeline. (1000 characters)
* How will you know if your project succeeded? What will you measure or observe?   (1000 characters)
* Complete the budget form (show overall budget including cash and in-kind contributions, not just what you want the grant to cover).
* Upload **Required** Application Documents
- Copy of **IRS 501(c)(3) determination letter** (not applicable for schools, tribal entities, and municipalities\*).
\*Municipalities/Territories/Schools/Tribal Entities Only: Provide an official authorization letter (i.e., a formal letter signed by the appropriate county, city, town, or village executive) to verify their tax-exempt status.
* Upload **Optional** Support Materials:
You may submit up to 6 support materials/work samples that best represent the type of work you will do related to this proposal **(not required but encouraged)**. This could include, but is not limited to:
- Examples of related projects you have previously completed, photos or videos of project location to highlight community need(s), etc.
- Materials showing how this project is meaningful to this community. This can be email exchanges or letters showing support from collaborators, partners, and venues, or quotes and testimonials from past or current program participants.
- Materials showing the artist(s) or culture-bearers involved in this project. This can be resumes, videos, images, short bios, etc.
| Uploads | File Type | Format and Tips |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Documents | PDF | * All Required documents should be in PDF format |
| Images | JPG, PNG, PDF | * Images will be viewed digitally and not printed |
| Audio | MP3 | * Include only the material intended for panel review. * 5 minutes max. in length |
| Video | MP4, WMV, Youtube or Vimeo link | * No video slide show of still images * 5 minutes max. in length |
| Writing Samples or Testimonials | PDF | * 12pt, Times New Roman font * 8-page max per sample |
| Links | N/A | * Work sample links must point to the exact sample you want reviewed (not a main website landing page). |
*The Maine Arts Commission may use submitted materials solely for the non-commercial promotion of the artist and/or Maine Arts Commission programs.*
Review Process
--------------
Submitted applications are first reviewed by staff for completion, eligibility, and adherence to these funding guidelines. Applications are then reviewed by a diverse panel of arts and culture professionals; these panelists review each application and submit ratings based on the review criteria (see below). These ratings help determine how funding will be allocated.
##### Review Criteria
Grant applications are reviewed on a competitive basis using the following criteria:
1. **Project Summary (20%):**
•  A clearly defined project with a strong plan for implementation, management, and evaluation
2. **Community Engagement & Access (40%):**
•  Consideration of community well-being and/or needs.
•  Potential to increase community access to the arts.
•  The project provides minimal barriers for public participation.
3. **Project Feasibility (20%):**
•  Capacity to complete the project, clear budget details, timeline, and a reasonable estimation of expenses.
4. **Artist Excellence and Artistic Merit (20%)**
•  Based on the overall application and support materials
•  The project demonstrates a committed effort to providing quality arts and cultural experiences.
Award Payments
--------------
If your application is funded, you enter into a letter of agreement with the Maine Arts Commission, and you must comply with all requirements stated in that agreement. Since your award money may take an extended amount of time from when you are first notified, they can be used to reimburse eligible operation costs incurred between July 1, 2026 and June 30, 2027.
All applicants are notified via email whether their application is approved or declined. If you receive an award, you will also receive future emails with next steps.
Note: Taxes will not be withheld from this award. The Grantee is an independent contractor and responsible for all reportage accountability for Federal or State Income Tax.
Final Reporting
---------------
Awardees are required to submit a final report for each grant received. Final reports are due 14 days after the end of the fiscal year. You may not be eligible to apply for another Maine Arts Commission grant if you do not submit your final report.
Terms & Conditions
------------------
Grantee must comply with all applicable state and federal laws, including but not limited to the federal assurances and terms and conditions applicable to a subgrantee of a State Arts Agency (SAA), as set forth at the following link: www.arts.gov/grants/legal-requirements-and-assurance-of-compliance
Disclaimer
----------
Our selection process is competitive and based on a thorough review of all applications against our established criteria as well as available resources. The acceptance of applications for this program does not guarantee the allocation of funds.
GRANT ASSISTANCE
----------------
Our goal is for all potential applicants to have the resources they need to submit a competitive application. If you have questions about the application process, please contact us. **We are always happy to help!**
**Danielle Moriarty**, Program Director
vog.eniam@ytrairom.elleinad
207-287-6719
**Eli Cabañas**, Grants and Website Manager
vog.eniam@sanabac.ile
207-215-5872
ACCESSIBILITY
-------------
**Grant information is available in large print format by request.**
If you require an alternate format or need assistance to access the guidelines or application, please contact our ADA Accessibility Coordinator Eli Cabañas by email at vog.eniam@sanabac.ile or at 207.215-5872.
It is the policy of the Maine Arts Commission not to discriminate on the basis of disability, and the Commission is dedicated to making our programs accessible and inclusive for people with disabilities and assist individuals with disabilities in connecting them with resources for access to the arts. All programs funded by the Maine Arts Commission must also be accessible.
Contact Us | Sign Up For E-News
32 Blossom Ln, 25 State House Station, Augusta, Maine 04333-0025Phone: 207/287-2724©Maine Arts Commission. All Rights Reserved.