Worcester Regional Strategic Opportunities Foundation
=====================================================
### **Worcester Regional Strategic Opportunities Foundation**
The Chamber has a charitable 501c-3 called the Worcester Regional Strategic Opportunities Foundation. This foundation is focused around supporting the education and workforce development initiatives of the Chamber, as well as our business recruitment and economic development efforts.
For 150 years, the Worcester Regional Chamber of Commerce has been vigilant in advocating for the economic well-being of the City of Worcester, Central Massachusetts, and the business community. Originally established as the Board of Trade in 1875, throughout its history, the organization has been at the forefront in working with government officials and institutional leaders in developing strategies that bring economic growth to the city and region as well as making sure that our community is healthy and vibrant.
To that end, more than 100 years ago, the Chamber established what is now known as the United Way of Central Massachusetts and over time, has spearheaded efforts to build the airport industrial park, DCU center, and biotech park. The Chamber has also helped create and spin off dynamic organizations such as the Worcester Business Development Corporation (WBDC) and Massachusetts Biomedical Initiatives (MBI) to further enhance the region’s economic strength and sector diversity.
Throughout this time, the Chamber has played a role in developing future leaders for the community through a myriad of programs and initiatives. However, at its core, the Chamber is there for its member businesses and organizations, working each and everyday to help them solve problems, learn best practices, and find trained and qualified employees in order to successfully run and grow their respective company.
In honor of our 150th Anniversary, we have established the **Linda Salem Pervier Permanent Restricted Fund** to provide additional resources focused on economic development and workforce issues that will better serve our chamber member businesses and organizations. This fund is named in recognition of Linda Salem Pervier, who has dedicated 50 years of service to the Chamber. Our goal is to raise $3 million by the end of 2025, and as of December 2025, we are proud to say we have surpassed that goal. If you would like to contribute to this fund, in honor of Linda’s legacy and to support continued economic growth in Worcester and the Central Mass region, please consider **donating.**
To make a tax-deductible contribution, DONATE ONLINE, or mail a check written out to: Worcester Regional Strategic Opportunities Foundation and mail to:
Worcester Regional Strategic Opportunity Foundation
c/o Worcester Regional Chamber of Commerce
311 Main Street, Suite 200
Worcester, MA 01608
###
###
###
### **Elaine Eppinger Small Business Grant**
In 2022, Elaine Eppinger established this grant opportunity for women-owned small businesses in Central Massachusetts, to be administered by the Worcester Regional Strategic Opportunities Foundation, the 501c-3 sole-purpose foundation of the Worcester Regional Chamber of Commerce. Each year, Ms. Eppinger will make a $5k contribution to WRSOF to continue this fund.
The grant opportunity will be promoted through the Chamber’s network. **Applications will be due in October 2026** and reviewed by a committee of the WRSOF board. Grants will awarded at the December WRSOF annual meeting to up to 3 businesses. In addition to the financial award, the business will also be given a year membership to the Chamber, so that the business is connected with information and resources to help them thrive.
Criteria:
* Priority given to Woman-owned, BIPOC-owned
* Less than 10 FTE
* Business is located in the WRCC service area
* Business must be a for-profit entity (sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, cooperative or LLC)
Award:
* $1000 – $5000 per grant, determined at the discretion of the review committee (1-5 awards)
* And 1 year chamber membership, valued at $425
Required as part of the application:
* W-9 Form
The application link will appear here in September 2026.
### **WRSOF Board Members**
| First Name | Last Name | officer | Company Name |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| D. | Moschos | Chair | Sedar Law |
| Eric | Torkornoo | Clerk | Fidelity Bank |
| Timothy | Murray | President | Worcester Regional Chamber of Commerce |
| Satya | Mitra | Treasurer | The Guru Tax & Financial Services |
| Katherine | Bagdis | Vice Chair | Mountain, Dearborn & Whiting LLP |
|  |  |  |  |
| Christina | Andreoli |  | Leader Bank |
| Craig | Blais |  | Worcester Business Development Corp. |
| Eric | Busenburg |  | Euro-American Worldwide Logistics |
| Robert | Cox |  | Bowditch & Dewey |
| Steve | Gentilucci |  | Consigli |
| Eric | Goodwine |  | Rockland Trust |
| Gloria | Paradiso |  | Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts |
| Melissa | Prohaska |  | M&T Bank |
| Sheila | King-Goodwin |  | Fidelity Bank |
| Shelley | Regin |  | Country Bank |
| Jackson | Restrepo |  | Restrepo Properties, LLC. |
| Jamie | Salois |  | Atlas Distributing, Inc. |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |