* Pay My Bill
* Careers
* Donate
* My Chart
* +1 (844) 401-0111
* Find A Provider
* Services
+ Addiction & Rehabilitation
- Alcohol and Drug Addiction
- Opioid Addiction and Recovery Stabilization
+ Behavioral Health
- Brain Research and Interventional Neurotherapeutics (BRAIN) Program
- Mood and Anxiety Disorders: Bipolar and Depression
- Obsessive-Compulsive and Anxiety Disorders
- Psychotic Disorders: Schizophrenia, Paranoia, and Psychosis
+ Neurology
- Memory Disorders: Alzheimer’s Disease, Dementia, and Memory Loss
- Movement Disorders: Parkinson’s Disease, Huntington’s, and Tardive Dyskinesia
- Neuropsychology Program
+ Emergency Assessments
+ Express Care
* Patients & Visitors
* For Healthcare Providers
* Research
* Contact Us
* Services
+ Addiction & Rehabilitation
- Alcohol and Drug Addiction
- Opioid Addiction and Recovery Stabilization
+ Behavioral Health
- Mood and Anxiety Disorders: Bipolar and Depression
- Obsessive-Compulsive and Anxiety Disorders
- Psychotic Disorders: Schizophrenia, Paranoia, and Psychosis
+ Neurology
- Memory Disorders: Alzheimer’s Disease, Dementia, and Memory Loss
- Movement Disorders: Parkinson’s Disease, Huntington’s, and Tardive Dyskinesia
+ Emergency Assessments
* Patients & Visitors
* For Healthcare Providers
* Research
* Contact Us
* Pay My Bill
* Careers
* +1 (844) 401-0111
#### Site Search
Butler COBRE for Neuromodulation (CCN)
======================================
COBRE Links
-----------
**Team**
* Meet the Team
* CCN Project Leaders
* Pilot Project Leaders
**Science Cores**
* Neuromodulation and Neuroimaging Core (NNC)
* Design and Analysis Core (DAC)
* Research Cores Training and Events
* COBRE Center for Neuromodulation Science Core Inquiry form
Pilot Program and Funding Opportunities
Newsletter/Publications/Acknowledgement and Citing
Contact Us
----------
Kristen Fortin-Ashburne, MBA
Center Administrator
COBRE Center for Neuromodulation, Butler Hospital
Annex W327, 345 Blackstone Blvd., Providence, RI 02906
KFortinAshburne@butler.org
(401) 680-4198
Center for Neuromodulation (CCN)
--------------------------------
A 2018 award from the National Institute of General Medical Sciences (NIGMS) to Butler Hospital established the Center of Biomedical Research Excellence (COBRE) on Neuromodulation or CCN. The mission of Butler’s CCN is to support innovative clinical research in neuromodulation (brain stimulation) and the career development of investigators in this field. The work couples brain stimulation methods with readouts of brain activity (e.g., using various neuroimaging, behavioral, and physiological assessment methods) in clinical or clinically relevant populations. The CCN provides a platform for the exchange of scientific insights and technical skills and mentoring so project leaders can move towards scientific independence. A robust pilot project award program provides support for new proposals and scientists who stand to contribute to a sustainable pipeline of researchers in clinical neuromodulation. The CCN focuses on neuropsychiatric illness with the guiding principle that for noninvasive brain stimulation to gain clinical efficacy and implementation, it is imperative to better characterize clinically relevant target circuits and mechanisms of action.
The CCN includes (1) a Design and Analysis Core (DAC) to support rigorous and innovative experimental design and data analytic strategies; (2) a Neuromodulation and Neuroimaging Core (NNC) to facilitate the acquisition and processing of high-quality data using noninvasive neurostimulation and neuroimaging methods; (3) an Administrative Core to oversee and coordinate activities to propel the development of investigators towards independence. The CCN will identify and promote the success of new neuromodulation scientists through the recruitment of new PLs and through its Pilot Project program, integrating the resources of the DAC and NNC.
Our Guiding Principles
----------------------
Our guiding scientific principle is that for the promise of neuromodulation therapies to be fully realized, it is critical to better characterizing their target circuits and mechanisms of action.
Our guiding organizational principle is to create structures and governance to propel promising junior investigators in this field towards independent scientific careers. This involves the following aims: Implement our management plan and mentorship program to expand the group of clinical-translational researchers doing therapeutically relevant and mechanistically informative neuromodulation research in Rhode Island. We have developed research core resources for the RI scientific community. one to support research design and later data analysis and interpretation, and another to acquire neuromodulation and neuroimaging data using best practices. The administrative core oversees fiscal management, fosters CCN cohesion, and evaluates the Center’s overall progress.
CCN Project Leaders
-------------------
##### Nicole C. McLaughlin, PhD
*Previously funded Project EPIC: Brain Circuitry of inhibitory control in young adults: Modulation with tDCS*
Dr. McLaughlin is Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior at the Alpert Medical School of Brown University and a neuropsychologist at Butler Hospital.
Read More
Read Less
She completed a PhD in clinical psychology at Suffolk University and then postdoctoral training in neuropsychology at Brown University and Butler Hospital, where she directs its psychiatric neurosurgery program. She has extensively studied prefrontal-subcortical functioning across neuropsychiatric disorders, with a more recent emphasis on the assessment of brain changes after neurocircuit-based interventions. She continues this line of research as a CCN Project Leader in COBRE, with a project investigating the inhibitory control (IC) network in young adults with deficits in ‘real-world’ IC (implicated in many neuropsychiatric illnesses); and assesses how a noninvasive method, high-definition-transcranial direct current stimulation (HD-tDCS) modulates MRI measures of functional connectivity within that network.
Read more
##### Mascha van't Wout-Frank, PhD
*Previously funded Project RISE: Effects of tDCS timing on safety memory in PTSD*
Dr. van’t Wout-Frank is Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior at Alpert Medical School, Brown University.
Read More
Read Less
She completed a doctoral degree in the Netherlands - where she was born - in cognitive neuropsychiatry, focusing on emotion processing in schizophrenia and related disorders. Following her PhD, Dr. van’t Wout-Frank continued work on emotional and social cognition at the University of Arizona, and later Brown University, in postdoctoral research on decision making. At Brown she became particularly interested in using noninvasive brain stimulation to understand and modify negative emotions, such as fear, regret and pain, and has worked to develop neuromodulation to treat posttraumatic stress disorder, in collaboration with the Center for Neurorestoration and Neurotechnology at the Providence VA Medical Center. Her CCN project extends that work by testing how the timing of noninvasive tDCS in a fear extinction paradigm affects safety learning, safety memory, and MRI-measured brain activity in individuals with posttraumatic stress symptoms, knowledge important to optimizing clinical neuromodulation.
Read more
##### Sarah Garnaat, PhD
*Previously funded Project FLEX: Modulating prefrontal circuits underlying behavioral flexibility in OCD: a TMS study*
##### Joshua Brown, MD, PhD
*Previously funded Project TIPS: Determining whether TMS changes the brain through brain synaptic plasticity*
Neuromodulation and Neuroimaging Core (NNC)
-------------------------------------------
The Neuromodulation and Neuroimaging Core (NNC) facilitates the research goals of COBRE Project Leaders and pilot grant investigators and benefits the broader neuromodulation research community by providing expert support, training, assistance, and advice to its constituents in the practical aspects of implementation, data collection, and project management related to neuroimaging and neurostimulation methods. The NNC addresses a critical need, namely, to provide Project Leaders with unique resources, skills, and support for using the best methods and practices surrounding neuroimaging and neuromodulation in clinical neuropsychiatric populations.
The NNC provides key services for research projects and creates an enduring resource that offers neuromodulation researchers a series of educational seminars, hands-on workshops, and customized training opportunities, high-level consultative and medical input, and use of a specialty research facility at Butler Hospital with lab space, equipment, and medical support.
##### NNC Specific Aims
1. Provide support, training and assistance to COBRE Project Leaders (PLs) and their teams to promote and facilitate the acquisition of high quality neuroimaging data.
2. Provide support training and assistance to COBRE PLs and their teams to promote and facilitate the application of high quality neuromodulation.
3. Establish core resources with a trajectory toward self-sustaining and enduring status that will serve the larger neuromodulation research community in Rhode Island.
##### COBRE Center for Neuromodulation Equipment
* Researchers receive specialized training and access to our lab space and state of the art equipment.
* For more information on the equipment available to investigators, visit the COBRE Center for Neuromodulation Equipment Catalog.
Design and Analysis Core
------------------------
The Design and Analysis Core (DAC) provides experimental design, statistical support, and neuroimaging consultation services to COBRE Project Leaders and the broader scientific research community. DAC faculty are affiliated with the Quantitative Sciences Program (QSP) of the Departments of Psychiatry and Neurology at the Alpert Medical School of Brown University and the Center for Neurorestoration and Neurotechnology at Providence VA Medical Center. Core Leader Richard Jones, ScD is a psychiatric epidemiologist and methodologies, and the director of the QSP. Core Co-Leader Jennifer Barredo, PhD is a neuroscientist with expertise in neuroimaging methodologies including advanced diffusion imaging, multimodal analysis, and machine learning. The DAC also maintains scientific computing resources and workflows available to COBRE project and pilot investigators and sponsors educational seminars and workshops.
Rich Jones, ScD
Director
Jennifer Barredo, PhD
Co-Director
DAC Specific Aims
-----------------
* Support CNN project leaders in the design and analysis of clinical translational research projects.
* Enhance and refine existing computing infrastructure, support clinical translational neuroscience research at Butler Hospital, coordinate and facilitate access to these resources in support of CCN projects and pilots.
* Enhance clinical neuroscience research in the Rhode Island community by participating in a broad educational mission in clinical neurosciences. This is accomplished by sponsoring speakers, conducting workshops, providing 1:1 training opportunities for PLs and their staff and collaborators.
Quantitative Sciences Program of the Departments of Psychiatry and Neurology at the Alpert Medical School of Brown University and the Norman Prince Neurosciences Institute
NNC and DAC Core Services
-------------------------
* Support Project Logistics
* Provide Training and Certifications
* Consultation on technical and medical aspects of protocols
* Guidance and Infrastructure for neuroimaging acquisition and analysis
* Workshops led by local and national experts on neuromodulation
Research Cores Training and Events
----------------------------------
The Monthly Brain Stimulation Meeting
The Monthly Brain Stimulation Meeting typically meets the last Friday of every month from 12:00 pm to 1:00 pm. This meeting brings together scientists, students, post-docs, graduate students, and research assistants from the research community to communicate the results of new research and topics relating to neuromodulation, neuroimaging, or electrophysiological studies of brain circuitry and dynamics relevant to neuromodulation.
To learn more about the Brain Stimulation meeting or if would like to request a guest speaker or research topic, please send inquiries to COBRECCN@CareNE.org (include your Name, institution, title, contact information).
Pilot Program
-------------
The COBRE Center for Neuromodulation aims to increase the quantity and quality of research in clinical neuromodulation (brain stimulation) in Rhode Island. One means of attaining this goal is identifying and nurturing talented young neuromodulation investigators or established investigators who want to create a new research line in the arena of neuromodulation. The Pilot Program supports the COBRE’s growth by encouraging additional scholarship in the COBREs thematic areas and developing potential new COBRE Project Leaders.
Our Center will award up to three pilot project awards annually, depending on available funding, for research related to Neuromodulation. Neuromodulation research encompasses the development of new brain stimulation targets, therapeutic interventions, or the use of neuromodulatory tools to otherwise understand and address neuropsychiatric disorders or their mechanisms. We aim to enable investigators to collect preliminary data in support of grant applications for independent external research funding, especially from the NIH. Pilot project leaders can take advantage of the COBRE CCN community to help guide their science and career development.
Pilot project leaders will have access to the COBRE’s three interdisciplinary cores. These cores will provide infrastructure, consultation, and additional support services to ensure the successful career development of the funded junior investigator and help them apply for external, independent funding. The three Cores include an Administrative Core, a Design and Analysis Core (DAC), and a Neuromodulation and Neuroimaging Core (NNC).
##### Program Requirements
* Research must be thematically related to clinical Neuromodulation
* The proposed pilot project should require funding for no more than 12 months
##### What you'll need before beginning the application process:
* Structured, one-page overview of research aims, significance, and approach
* References
* NIH-formatted bio-sketch for each investigator and mentor
* Documentation of Other Support
##### To ensure the proposed research fits with the mission of the COBRE CCN, we encourage interested applicants to submit the above items to the CCN Administrator, Kristen Fortin-Ashburne at KFortinAshburne@butler.org before beginning the application process.
Pilot Project Leaders
---------------------
##### Ana Abrantes, PhD
Project: *Aerobic exercise to augment the plasticity effect of rTMS in patients with treatment resistant depression*
Dr. Abrantes is Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior at the Alpert Medical School of Brown University and Co-Director of Behavioral Medicine and Addiction Research at Butler Hospital. Dr. Abrantes' research is focused on the development and testing of novel interventions for decreasing relapse risk among individuals with alcohol and other drug use disorders, including nicotine dependence.
Read More
Read Less
Her current projects include using text messaging, developing smartphone apps, neurostimulation (e.g., tDCS), and EMA/EMI approaches. In addition, Dr. Abrantes also conducts research in the area of physical activity promotion for individuals with substance use and mental health disorders. This research includes testing Fitbit-supported lifestyle physical activity, physical activity apps, and peer-facilitated approaches. Dr. Abrantes is committed to mentoring trainees and junior faculty, serving as a research mentor on two of Brown’s T32 fellowship programs and as primary or co-mentor for several NIH K awardees. Dr. Abrantes has published over 170 peer-reviewed papers and has been the Principal Investigator or Co-Investigator on over 40 NIH-funded grants. She regularly serves on NIH scientific review panels. She is on several academic journals' editorial boards, including as past Editor-in-Chief of Mental Health and Physical Activity.
Read more
##### Kristen Benito, PhD
*Previously funded Project: TMS for improving Response Inhibition in Adolescents*
Dr. Benito is an Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior at the Alpert Medical School of Brown University and is the Research and Quality Improvement Lead at the Pediatric Anxiety Research Center (PARC) at Bradley Hospital. She completed a PhD in clinical psychology at the University of Florida and a postdoctoral T32 fellowship at Brown University.
Read More
Read Less
Dr. Benito leads a program of research focused on understanding treatment processes and mechanism of change in exposure therapy for youth and using this knowledge to 1) augment and personalize treatment, 2) develop new treatments, and 3) improve treatment delivery in practice settings. Since joining the Brown faculty in 2012, she has received continuous funding from NIH (R21/R33 and R01 grants) as well as other federal and private organizations. As a clinical psychologist, Dr. Benito has provided exposure therapy for OCD and anxiety disorders for more than 15 years. Dr. Benito’s CCN pilot project will extend her program of research to examine neuromodulation as an exposure augmentation strategy for youth. This pilot project will test whether TMS can improve response inhibition, an important skill for successful exposure therapy, in adolescents with OCD.
Read More
##### Maggie Bublitz, PhD
Project: *Targeting the brain-heart axis with TMS among reproductive aged women with PTSD*
Maggie Bublitz, PhD is a graduate of the University of British Columbia’s program in clinical psychology. She completed her clinical psychology internship and postdoctoral fellowship in cardiovascular behavioral medicine at Brown Medical School. Dr. Bublitz is an associate professor in the department of psychiatry and human behavior and the department of medicine at Brown Medical School.
Read More
Read Less
She is a practicing clinical psychologist in women’s behavioral medicine and directs the integrated behavioral health service at the Women’s Primary Care Practice at the Women’s Medicine Collaborative (The Miriam Hospital). Dr. Bublitz is currently Principal Investigator of several clinical trials testing interventions to reduce risk for hypertension in perinatal and reproductive ages women and has authored over 60 peer-reviewed manuscripts. Her research interests include the investigation of 1) the effects of psychological stress on cardiovascular disease processes, and 2) brain-based interventions to improve cardiovascular health. She currently serves as Senior Investigator at the Mindfulness Center and Research Member of the Research Institute for Stress, Trauma, and Resilience (STAR) at Brown.
Read more
##### Andrew Fukuda, MD, PhD
*Previously funded Project: Examining Perivascular Space Changes in Depressed Patients Receiving TMS: Pilot Study*
Dr. Andrew M. Fukuda is an Assistant Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior at the Alpert Medical School of Brown University and an attending Psychiatrist at Butler Hospital. He received his MD/PhD from Loma Linda University and completed his General Psychiatry Residency Training in the NIMH funded R25 Research Track at Brown University / Butler Hospital, where he served as Chief Resident in his final year.
Read More
Read Less
Dr. Fukuda is leading various studies examining the mechanisms of risk for depression as well as biomarkers of treatment response, with a particular interest in examining the roles of non-neuronal systems in depression pathology and their involvement in the therapeutic mechanisms of action of neuromodulation treatments. Aside from his research and clinical passion, he is involved in several local and national committees and is active in trainee education and mentorship.
Read More
##### Brian Kavanaugh, PsyD
*Previously funded Project: Modulation of frontoparietal dynamics underlying adolescent working memory deficits.*
Dr. Kavanaugh is a pediatric neuropsychologist at E. P. Bradley Hospital and an assistant professor of psychiatry and human behavior at the Alpert Medical School of Brown University. He is board certified in clinical neuropsychology through the American Board of Professional Psychology, with a pediatric neuropsychology subspecialty.
Read More
Read Less
He completed his doctoral degree in clinical psychology at Antioch University New England, pediatric neuropsychology internship at the Kennedy Krieger Institute/Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, and pediatric neuropsychology fellowship at E. P. Bradley Hospital/Alpert Medical School of Brown University. His clinical and research work centers on how and why cognitive dysfunction emerges in childhood neuropsychiatric disorders. His research uses electroencephalography, non-invasive brain stimulation, and behavioral paradigms to measure and modulate the neural mechanisms underlying cognitive deficits in children and adolescents.
Read More
##### Brian Theyel, MD, PhD
*Previously funded Project: Differential effects of transcranial magnetic stimulation on biophysically distinct neurons*
Brian Theyel, M.D., Ph.D. is a Psychiatrist with a research interest in basic neuroscience. His work concentrates on the investigation of circuit abnormalities in autism, schizophrenia, and PTSD. He has a special interest in the roles that abnormalities in cortical interneurons play in these diseases and has most recently discovered that an important inhibitory interneuron puts “the brakes” on brain activity by firing repeatedly in the “backward” direction when activity levels get too high.
Read More
Read Less
He is currently working to understand how these neurons sense elevated levels of brain activity and engage this mechanism and believes that the myriad of mutations that both alter these inhibitory brain cells and are known to cause human disease might impact this property. His main methodologic research involves the whole-cell patch-clamp technique, local field potential recordings, in vitro neuroimaging, a cell-specific gene knockout strategy, and advanced neuroanatomical techniques.
Read More
##### Newsletter
For those who wish to be added to the COBRE Center for Neuromodulation newsletter distribution list, please send the following contact information to cobreccn@carene.org:
* First and last name
* Primary research role
* Preferred email address
* Name of your institution
* Name of your research group
##### Acknowledgment and Citing
Research reported in this website was supported by the National Institute of General Medical Science of the National Institutes of Health under grant number P20GM130452. If you have received funding, consultation, mentorship, research support services, materials, training, access to shared equipment and/or space from the COBRE Center for Neuromodulation Cores, please acknowledge the COBRE Center for Neuromodulation by using the following statement:
> *Grant citing in all abstracts (presentations), and publications by investigators: “Research reported in this publication was supported by the National Institute Of General Medical Sciences of the National Institutes of Health under Award Number P20GM130452, Center for Biomedical Research Excellence, Center for Neuromodulation. The content is solely the responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the official views of the National Institutes of Health.”*
>
> *Core Facility users citing:*
> *“Research was facilitated by the National Institute Of General Medical Sciences of the National Institutes of Health under Award Number P20GM130452, Center for Biomedical Research Excellence, Center for Neuromodulation. The content is solely the responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the official views of the National Institutes of Health”*
Please also send the title of your presentation, and where and when you presented the work or the citation for your manuscript. COBRECCN@CareNE.org
Brown University Carney Institute for Brain Science
Brown University Advance Clinical Translational Research
CoresRI.org
Providence VA Medical Center Center for Neurorestoration and Neurotechnology (CfNN)
Quantitative Sciences Program
*This portion of our website is supported by the COBRE Center of Neuromodulation Funded by the National Institutes of Health grant number P20GM130452. The content is solely the responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the official views of the National Institutes of Health*
##### Publications
Gonsalves MA, White TL, Barredo J, DeMayo MM, DeLuca E, Harris AD, Carpenter LL. Cortical glutamate, Glx, and total N-acetylaspartate: potential biomarkers of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation treatment response and outcomes in major depression. Transl Psychiatry. 2024 Jan 6;14(1):5. doi: 10.1038/s41398-023-02715-9. PMID: 38184652; PMCID: PMC10771455.
Kavanaugh BC, Parade S, Seifer R, McLaughlin NCR, Tirrell E, Festa EK, Oberman LM, Novick AM, Carpenter LL, Tyrka AR. Childhood stress, gender, and cognitive control: Midline theta power. J Psychiatr Res. 2024 Jan;169:298-306. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2023.11.046. Epub 2023 Dec 2. PMID: 38070470.
Kavanaugh BC, Fukuda AM, Gemelli ZT, Thorpe R, Tirrell E, Vigne M, Jones SR, Carpenter LL. Pre-treatment frontal beta events are associated with executive dysfunction improvement after repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation for depression: A preliminary report. J Psychiatr Res. 2023 Dec;168:71-81. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2023.10.024. Epub 2023 Oct 17. PMID: 37897839.
Brown JC, Goldszer IM, Brooks MC, Milano NJ. An Evaluation of the Emerging Techniques in Sports-Related Concussion. J Clin Neurophysiol. 2023 Jul 1;40(5):384-390. doi: 10.1097/WNP.0000000000000879. Epub 2023 Mar 16. PMID: 36930205; PMCID: PMC10329722.
van Rooij SJH, Arulpragasam AR, McDonald WM, Philip NS. Accelerated TMS - moving quickly into the future of depression treatment. Neuropsychopharmacology. 2023 May 22. doi: 10.1038/s41386-023-01599-z. Epub ahead of print. PMID: 37217771.
Berlow YA, Zandvakili A, Brennan MC, Williams LM, Price LH, Philip NS. Modeling the antidepressant treatment response to transcranial magnetic stimulation using an exponential decay function. Sci Rep. 2023 May 2;13(1):7138. doi: 10.1038/s41598-023-33599-w. PMID: 37130868; PMCID: PMC10154303.
McLaughlin NCR, Magnotti JF, Banks GP, Nanda P, Hoexter MQ, Lopes AC, Batistuzzo MC, Asaad WF, Stewart C, Paulo D, Noren G, Greenberg BD, Malloy P, Salloway S, Correia S, Pathak Y, Sheehan J, Marsland R, Gorgulho A, De Salles A, Miguel EC, Rasmussen SA, Sheth SA. Gamma knife capsulotomy for intractable OCD: Neuroimage analysis of lesion size, location, and clinical response. Transl Psychiatry. 2023 Apr 26;13(1):134. doi: 10.1038/s41398-023-02425-2. PMID: 37185805; PMCID: PMC10130137.
Morris AT, Temereanca S, Zandvakili A, Thorpe R, Sliva DD, Greenberg BD, Carpenter LL, Philip NS, Jones SR. Fronto-central resting-state 15-29 Hz transient beta events change with therapeutic transcranial magnetic stimulation for posttraumatic stress disorder and major depressive disorder. Sci Rep. 2023 Apr 19;13(1):6366. doi: 10.1038/s41598-023-32801-3. PMID: 37076496; PMCID: PMC10115889.
Giff A, Noren G, Magnotti J, Lopes AC, Batistuzzo MC, Hoexter M, Greenberg B, Marsland R, Miguel EC, Rasmussen S, McLaughlin N. Spatial normalization discrepancies between native and MNI152 brain template scans in gamma ventral capsulotomy patients. Psychiatry Res Neuroimaging. 2023 Mar;329:111595. doi: 10.1016/j.pscychresns.2023.111595. Epub 2023 Jan 17. PMID: 36680842; PMCID: PMC10153791.
Brown JC, Higgins ES, George MS. Synaptic Plasticity 101: The Story of the AMPA Receptor for the Brain Stimulation Practitioner. Neuromodulation. 2022 Dec;25(8):1289-1298. doi: 10.1016/j.neurom.2021.09.003. Epub 2021 Dec 18. PMID: 35088731.
Gaudet CE, Castelluccio B, Gold D, McLaughlin NCR, Correia S. Limitations of performance validity tests in dementia evaluations: The role of base rates. Psychol Assess. 2022 Nov;34(11):1074-1080. doi: 10.1037/pas0001166. Epub 2022 Sep 22. PMID: 36136812; PMCID: PMC10080457.
Fukuda AM, Kang JWD, Gobin AP, Tirrell E, Kokdere F, Carpenter LL. Effects of transcranial magnetic stimulation on anhedonia in treatment resistant major depressive disorder. Brain Behav. 2021 Sep;11(9):e2329. doi: 10.1002/brb3.2329. Epub 2021 Aug 28. PMID: 34453491; PMCID: PMC8442591.
Philip NS, Arulpragasam AR. Reaching for the unreachable: low intensity focused ultrasound for non-invasive deep brain stimulation. Neuropsychopharmacology. 2023 Jan;48(1):251-252. doi: 10.1038/s41386-022-01386-2. PMID: 35869281; PMCID: PMC9700833.
Lechner WV, Philip NS, Kahler CW, Houben K, Tirrell E, Carpenter LL. Combined Working Memory Training and Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation Demonstrates Low Feasibility and Potentially Worse Outcomes on Delay to Smoking and Cognitive Tasks: A Randomized 2 × 2 Factorial Design Pilot and Feasibility Study. Nicotine Tob Res. 2022 Nov 12;24(12):1871-1880. doi: 10.1093/ntr/ntac183. PMID: 35907262; PMCID: PMC9653077.
Gonsalves MA, White TL, Barredo J, Fukuda AM, Joyce HE, Harris AD, Carpenter LL. Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation-Associated Changes in Neocortical Metabolites in Major Depression: A Systematic Review. Neuroimage Clin. 2022;35:103049. doi: 10.1016/j.nicl.2022.103049. Epub 2022 May 16. PMID: 35738081; PMCID: PMC9233277.
Seligowski AV, Webber TK, Marvar PJ, Ressler KJ, Philip NS. Involvement of the brain-heart axis in the link between PTSD and cardiovascular disease. Depress Anxiety. 2022 Oct;39(10-11):663-674. doi: 10.1002/da.23271. Epub 2022 Jun 16. PMID: 35708302; PMCID: PMC9588548.
Kweon J, Vigne M, Jones R, George MS, Carpenter LL, Brown JC. A replication study of NMDA receptor agonism sufficiency to enhance 10-Hz rTMS-induced motor cortex plasticity. Brain Stimul. 2022 Nov-Dec;15(6):1372-1374. doi: 10.1016/j.brs.2022.09.014. Epub 2022 Sep 27. PMID: 36180040.
Kassel MT, Lositsky O, Vaidya AR, Badre D, Malloy PF, Greenberg BD, Marsland R, Noren G, Sherman A, Rasmussen SA, McLaughlin NCR. Differential assessment of frontally-mediated behaviors between self- and informant-report in patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder following gamma ventral capsulotomy. Neuropsychologia. 2022 Jun 6;170:108211. Doi: 10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2022.108211. Epub 2022 Mar 18. PMID: 35307368.
Carpenter LL, Kronenberg EF, Tirrell E, Kokdere F, Beck QM, Temereanca S, Fukuda AM, Garikapati S, Hagberg S. Mechanical Affective Touch Therapy for Anxiety Disorders: Feasibility, Clinical Outcomes, and Electroencephalography Biomarkers From an Open-Label Trial. Front Psychiatry. 2022 Apr 22;13:877574. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2022.877574. PMID: 35530031; PMCID: PMC9072623.
Arulpragasam AR, van 't Wout-Frank M, Barredo J, Faucher CR, Greenberg BD, Philip NS. Low Intensity Focused Ultrasound for Non-invasive and Reversible Deep Brain Neuromodulation-A Paradigm Shift in Psychiatric Research. Front Psychiatry. 2022 Feb 24;13:825802. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2022.825802. PMID: 35280168; PMCID: PMC8907584.
Gold MC, Yuan S, Tirrell E, Kronenberg EF, Kang JWD, Hindley L, Sherif M, Brown JC, Carpenter LL. Large-scale EEG neural network changes in response to therapeutic TMS. Brain Stimul. 2022 Mar-Apr;15(2):316-325. doi: 10.1016/j.brs.2022.01.007. Epub 2022 Jan 17. PMID: 35051642; PMCID: PMC8957581.
Gonsalves MA, Beck QM, Fukuda AM, Tirrell E, Kokdere F, Kronenberg EF, Iadarola ND, Hagberg S, Carpenter LL, Barredo J. Mechanical Affective Touch Therapy for Anxiety Disorders: Effects on Resting State Functional Connectivity. Neuromodulation. 2022 Jan 6:S1094-7159(21)06182-1. doi: 10.1016/j.neurom.2021.10.007. Epub ahead of print. PMID: 35088729.
Bozzay ML, Brigido S, van 't Wout-Frank M, Aiken E, Swift R, Philip NS. Intermittent Theta Burst Stimulation in Veterans with Mild Alcohol Use Disorder. J Affect Disord. 2021 Oct 1;293:314-319. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2021.06.039. Epub 2021 Jun 24. PMID: 34229284; PMCID: PMC8349789.
Cosmo C, Berlow YA, Grisanzio KA, Fleming SL, Rashed Ahmed AP, Brennan MC, Carpenter LL, Philip NS. Transdiagnostic Symptom Subtypes to Predict Response to Therapeutic Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation in Major Depressive Disorder and Posttraumatic Stress Disorder. J Pers Med. 2022 Feb 6;12(2):224. doi: 10.3390/jpm12020224. PMID: 35207712; PMCID: PMC8874724.
Philip NS, Doherty RA, Faucher C, Aiken E, van 't Wout-Frank M. Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation for Posttraumatic Stress Disorder and Major Depression: Comparing Commonly Used Clinical Protocols. J Trauma Stress. 2022 Feb;35(1):101-108. doi: 10.1002/jts.22686. Epub 2021 May 11. PMID: 33973681; PMCID: PMC8581062.
Faucher CR, Doherty RA, Philip NS, Harle ASM, Cole JJE, Van't Wout-Frank M. Is there a neuroscience-based, mechanistic rationale for transcranial direct current stimulation as an adjunct treatment for posttraumatic stress disorder? Behav Neurosci. 2021 Dec;135(6):702-713. doi: 10.1037/bne0000487. Epub 2021 Aug 2. PMID: 34338547; PMCID: PMC8648962.
Yuan S, Brown JC, Gold M, Tirrell E, Jones RN, Carpenter LL. Effects of single-dose L-theanine on motor cortex excitability. Clin Neurophysiol. 2021 Sep;132(9):2062-2064. doi: 10.1016/j.clinph.2021.07.003. Epub 2021 Jul 10. PMID: 34293527; PMCID: PMC8384717.
Cosmo C, Seligowski AV, Aiken EM, Van't Wout-Frank M, Philip NS. Heart Rate Variability Features as Predictors of Intermittent Theta-Burst Stimulation Response in Posttraumatic Stress Disorder. Neuromodulation. 2021 Sep 27. doi: 10.1111/ner.13529. Epub ahead of print. PMID: 34570925.
Brown JC, Yuan S, DeVries WH, Armstrong NM, Korte JE, Sahlem GL, Carpenter LL, George MS. NMDA-receptor agonist reveals LTP-like properties of 10-Hz rTMS in the human motor cortex. Brain Stimul. 2021 May-Jun;14(3):619-621. doi: 10.1016/j.brs.2021.03.016. Epub 2021 Mar 29. PMID: 33794339; PMCID: PMC8164996.
McLaughlin NCR, Lauro PM, Patrick MT, Pucci FG, Barrios-Anderson A, Greenberg BD, Rasmussen SA, Asaad WF. Magnetic Resonance Imaging-Guided Laser Thermal Ventral Capsulotomy for Intractable Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder. Neurosurgery. 2021 May 13;88(6):1128-1135. doi: 10.1093/neuros/nyab050. PMID: 33693795; PMCID: PMC8223246.
Fried PJ, Santarnecchi E, Antal A, Bartres-Faz D, Bestmann S, Carpenter LL, Celnik P, Edwards D, Farzan F, Fecteau S, George MS, He B, Kim YH, Leocani L, Lisanby SH, Loo C, Luber B, Nitsche MA,
Paulus W, Rossi S, Rossini PM, Rothwell J, Sack AT, Thut G, Ugawa Y, Ziemann U, Hallett M, Pascual-Leone A. Training in the practice of noninvasive brain stimulation: Recommendations from an IFCN committee. Clin Neurophysiol. 2021 Mar;132(3):819-837. doi: 10.1016/j.clinph.2020.11.018. Epub 2020 Dec 3. PMID: 33549501.
Barredo J, Bozzay ML, Primack JM, Schatten HT, Armey MF, Carpenter LL, Philip NS. Translating Interventional Neuroscience to Suicide: It's About Time. Biol Psychiatry. 2021 Jun 1;89(11):1073-1083. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2021.01.013. Epub 2021 Feb 1. PMID: 33820628.
Philip NS, Doherty RA, Faucher C, Aiken E, van 't Wout-Frank M. Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation for Posttraumatic Stress Disorder and Major Depression: Comparing Commonly Used Clinical Protocols. J Trauma Stress. 2021 May 11. doi: 10.1002/jts.22686. Epub ahead of print. PMID: 33973681.
Brigido S, Bozzay M, Philip NS. Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Symptom Severity Does Not Predict Depression Improvement, but May Impact Clinical Response and Remission. J Clin Psychiatry. 2021 Mar 30;82(3):20l13751. doi: 10.4088/JCP.20l13751. PMID: 34000108; PMCID: PMC8177072.
Cosmo C, Zandvakili A, Petrosino NJ, Berlow YA, Philip NS. Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation for Treatment-Resistant Depression: Recent Critical Advances in Patient Care. Curr Treat Options Psychiatry. 2021 Mar 11:1-17. doi: 10.1007/s40501-021-00238-y. Epub ahead of print. PMID: 33723500; PMCID: PMC7946620.
Greenberg BD, Philip NS, Fortin-Ashburne K, Carpenter LL. The COBRE Center for Neuromodulation (CCN) at Butler Hospital: Clinical-Translational Research in Human Brain Stimulation. R I Med J (2013). 2021 Mar 1;104(2):30-33. PMID: 33648316.
Barredo J, Berlow Y, Swearingen HR, Greenberg BD, Carpenter LL, Philip NS. Multimodal Elements of Suicidality Reduction After Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation. Neuromodulation. 2021 Mar 1. doi: 10.1111/ner.13376. Epub ahead of print. PMID: 33650209.
Zandvakili A, Swearingen HR, Philip NS. Changes in functional connectivity after theta-burst transcranial magnetic stimulation for post-traumatic stress disorder: a machine-learning study. Eur Arch Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2021 Feb;271(1):29-37. doi: 10.1007/s00406-020-01172-5. Epub 2020 Jul 27. PMID: 32719969; PMCID: PMC7867551.
van 't Wout-Frank M, Philip NS. Simultaneous Application of Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation during Virtual Reality Exposure J Vis Exp. 2021 Jan 18;(167):10.3791/61795. doi: 10.3791/61795. PMID: 33522512; PMCID: PMC8140328.
Berlow YA, Zandvakili A, Philip NS. Low-frequency right-sided and high frequency left-sided repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation for depression: The evidence of equivalence. Brain Stimul. 2020 Nov-Dec;13(6):1793-1795. doi: 10.1016/j.brs.2020.10.005. Epub 2020 Oct 13. PMID: 33065359; PMCID: PMC7552991.
Kokdere F, Tirrell E, Fukuda AM, Gobin AP, Kavanaugh BC, Price LH, Carpenter LL. Do deviations from the 5 sessions per week schedule impact outcomes of transcranial magnetic stimulation for major depressive disorder? Brain Stimul. 2020 Nov-Dec;13(6):1491-1493. doi: 10.1016/j.brs.2020.08.001. Epub 2020 Aug 6. PMID: 32768691; PMCID: PMC8111778.
Fukuda AM, Hindley LE, Kang JWD, Tirrell E, Tyrka AR, Ayala A, Carpenter LL. Peripheral vascular endothelial growth factor changes after transcranial magnetic stimulation in treatment-resistant depression. Neuroreport. 2020 Nov 4;31(16):1121-1127. doi: 10.1097/WNR.0000000000001523. PMID: 32956213; PMCID: PMC7541741.
van 't Wout-Frank M, Shea MT, Sorensen DO, Faucher CR, Greenberg BD, Philip NS. A Secondary Analysis on Effects of Theta Burst Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation to Reduce Anger in Veterans With Posttraumatic Stress Disorder. Neuromodulation. 2020 Sep 17. doi: 10.1111/ner.13256. Epub ahead of print. PMID: 32945055.
Silveira VP, Frydman I, Fontenelle LF, Mattos P, de Oliveira-Souza R, Moll J, Hoexter MQ, Miguel EC, McLaughlin NCR, Shephard E, Batistuzzo MC. Exploring response inhibition and error monitoring in obsessive-compulsive disorder. J Psychiatr Res. 2020 Jul;126:26-33. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2020.04.002. Epub 2020 Apr 21. PMID: 32413597; PMCID: PMC7313630.
Bozzay ML, Primack J, Barredo J, Philip NS. Transcranial magnetic stimulation to reduce suicidality - A review and naturalistic outcomes. J Psychiatr Res. 2020 Jun;125:106-112. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2020.03.016. Epub 2020 Mar 28. PMID: 32251917; PMCID: PMC7197489.
Philip NS, McLaughlin NC, Carpenter LL, Phillips ML, Liu H, Haber SN, Greenberg BD. Transient aphasia induced by intermittent theta-burst stimulation. Brain Stimul. 2020 Jul-Aug;13(4):941-942. doi: 10.1016/j.brs.2020.03.013. Epub 2020 Mar 25. PMID: 32380444; PMCID: PMC7343258.
Petrosino NJ, Wout-Frank MV', Aiken E, Swearingen HR, Barredo J, Zandvakili A, Philip NS. One-year clinical outcomes following theta-burst stimulation for post-traumatic stress disorder. Neuropsychopharmacology. 2020 May;45(6):940-946. doi: 10.1038/s41386-019-0584-4. Epub 2019 Dec 3. PMID: 31794974; PMCID: PMC7162862.
Beck QM, Tirrell E, Fukuda AM, Kokdere F, Carpenter LL. Can early treatment response serve as a predictor of antidepressant outcome of repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation? Brain Stimul.2020 Mar-Apr;13(2):420-421. doi: 10.1016/j.brs.2019.12.002. Epub 2019 Dec 16. PMID: 31882372; PMCID: PMC8094132.
##### Funding Opportunities
**Grants.gov**
A searchable database of all discretionary grants offered by the 26 federal grant-making agencies. You can create a custom search with regular email updates.
**National Institutes of Health Listserv**
At the end of each week, NIH transmits an e-mail to NIH Guide LISTSERV subscribers with the Current Weekly Table of Contents (TOC) which includes links to all NIH announcements published during the week. This list includes special notices, changes to announcements, and program announcements.
**National Science Foundation**
A searchable database of all National Science Foundation grants and crosscutting grants. The database is searchable by grant status and NSF organizations. Advanced searchers are also available.
**SPIN Funding Database (Brown University and affiliates)**
Find a broad range of funding opportunities from federal, governmental, international, private, and corporate funders.
Weekly NIH Funding Opportunities and Notices
##### Grant Writing Resources
The Grant Application Writer’s Workbook (NIH, 2021)
Write your Application (NIH website)
Grant Writers’ Seminars and Workshops: Training in the art of grantsmanship.
NIH Center for Scientific Review: YouTube tutorials on navigating the peer view process.
NIH Guide for Grants and Contracts: The official publication for NIH biomedical and behavioral research grant policies, guidelines, and funding opportunities.
NIH Staff Contact Information: The best people to talk with you about the scientific or administrative information in your particular application or award are in the NIH institute or center that may fund the grant. Find the best contact for each phase of the application or award process.
Rhode Island’s Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR): Supports research seeking to better understand and anticipate the impact of climate variability on marine life and ecosystems.
Sample Grant Applications, Summary Statements, and More from NIAID: Examples of funded R01, R03, R15, R21, SBIR/STTR, K, and F applications, summary statements, sharing plans, leadership plans, and more.
NIH Office of Extramural Research Webinars The NIH Office of Extramural Research provides webinars on a variety of topics to help provide additional information on current or new policies and processes in a more interactive format for the extramural research community. If participating in a live webinar doesn’t fit your schedule, there will always be a recording and transcript following the event as additional resources.
Webinar Series for the NIGMS Training Community NIGMS created a new webinar series for students, postdocs, and faculty. Each hour-long webinar includes a 10- to a 15-minute presentation by the speaker followed by a moderated question and answer session. Participants requiring sign language interpretation and/or other reasonable accommodations should email info@nigms.nih.gov or call the Federal Relay Service at 800-877-8339 at least 3 days prior to the event. We strongly encourage our sponsored trainees and other interested students, postdocs, and faculty to participate in these webinars.
##### Contact Us
Send Us A Message
+1 (844) 401-0111
345 Blackstone Blvd,
Providence, RI 02906
##### Other Care New England Locations
Care New England
Kent Hospital
The Providence Center
VNA of Care New England
Women & Infants Hospital
##### Patients and Visitors
Find A Provider
Integra Community Care
##### About Us
Who We Are
Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion (DEI)
Research
Legal Notices
Auxiliary Aids & Services
Price Transparency
##### Get Involved
Ways to Give
Careers
Volunteer
##### News
In The News
Media Relations
---
Copyright © 2026 Care New England Health System
×
You are about to leave our website and enter an external site. We are not responsible for the content, privacy practices, or accuracy of information on the external site. Do you wish to continue?
Yes
No