Funding Opportunities
RFP 0332 - Food Access Expansion Grant Program
==============================================
On this page
------------
On this page
------------
RFP 0332 - Food Access Expansion Grant Program
---
Overview
--------
The Department is seeking applications for the $10 million Food Access Expansion Grant Program. The program aims to help increase food access for New Yorkers living in areas without grocery stores and options for healthy, affordable food. The program will provide infrastructure funding to support the development and expansion of supermarkets, food cooperatives, permanent farm stands, and other retail food stores in underserved regions of the State while also increasing markets for New York farmers.
---
Apply
-----
Funding will be awarded to eligible applicants for projects that increase the availability of food, whether through construction of a new retail store, the purchase of equipment to improve food and meals offered, or the creation of a mobile market and more. Eligible entities to receive this funding include nonprofit organizations, public benefit corporations, local or regional development corporations, tribal governments, and local and municipal government agencies. Eligible applicants may partner with for-profit retailers.
Applications must be submitted via the Statewide Financial System (SFS) Vendor Portal to be considered for funding. A webinar explaining how to apply to a grant through SFS is available here.
You may review the RFP and all requirements for this funding opportunity on the Contract Reporter website. The deadline to apply for the grant is **Friday, December 20, 2024 at 3:00 pm.** Late proposals will not be accepted.
\*\*\*Note: The deadline for this opportunity has been extended from the previous deadline, Friday, November 22, 2024. Please see details of the extension detailed in the addendum below titled "Addendum 2 - RFP 0332 - Food Access Expansion Grant Program."
A webinar with additional information on the Food Access Expansion Grant Program was held on Thursday, September 26 at 12:00 pm. Watch a recording.
All questions about this funding opportunity must be submitted in writing to [email protected].
* ### Request for Proposals - RFP 0332 - Food Access Expansion Grant Program
Download
* ### Grant Match Calculator - RFP 0332 - Food Access Expansion Grant Program
Download
* ### Addendum 1 - RFP 0332 - Food Access Expansion Grant Program
Download
* ### Addendum 2 - RFP 0332 - Food Access Expansion Grant Program
Download
* ### Questions and Answers - RFP 0332 - Food Access Expansion Grant Program
Download
---
### Helpful Resources from New York State Grants Management
Getting Prequalified
Transitioning to SFS
Registering Your Organization in SFS
Contact SFS