AVAILABLE
GRANTS
AVAILABLE
GRANTS
Home
|
Nonprofits
|
Available Grants
* Nonprofits
* Available Grants
* Special Initiative Grants/dao
+ Edna W. Andrade Grants
+ Art Works
+ Black Community Leaders
+ Forman Family Fund Grants
+ GSK IMPACT Awards
+ Giving Circle Women’s Connection Philadelphia
+ Henrietta Tower Wurts
+ Philadelphia District Attorney’s Office Forfeiture Fund
* Grant Reporting Requirements
* Build your Endowment
From Strategy to Action: Announcing a New Approach for 2026
-----------------------------------------------------------
Available GrantsWe want to acknowledge this time of uncertainty, disruption, and challenge for the nonprofit community in our region and for the children, youth, families and neighborhoods that rely on nonprofit support.
============================================================================================================================================================================================================================
Philadelphia Foundation has made a long-term commitment to advancing economic mobility throughout Greater Philadelphia.
Philadelphia Foundation has made a long-term commitment to advancing economic mobility throughout Greater Philadelphia.
=======================================================================================================================
From 2013 to 2023, our region experienced half the economic growth rate of peer regions, and as a result, is missing more than 100,000 jobs in sectors with high growth. And the metro recently ranked 50 out of 50 in economic mobility with 40% of workers underwater or financially at risk. The challenge is clear: there is too little growth for businesses and too little opportunity for residents.
We believe this is a moment that demands collective ambition and action. Together with business, civic, community, and philanthropic partners, Philadelphia Foundation has committed to coordinated, long-term work to grow the regional economy, strengthen pathways to quality jobs, and ensure that young people and their families are economically secure, empowered, and connected from cradle to career.
To lead this work, Philadelphia Foundation is incubating the Greater Philadelphia Opportunity Council (GPOC), a new organization that will serve as the backbone for a multi-year, multi-sector economic mobility plan that will align resources, drive execution, and be accountable for progress and results so that this moment translates into lasting change.
Internally, Philadelphia Foundation is launching a new grant program in 2026 to build new partnerships with workforce development providers with strong outcomes to help build a more connected workforce and opportunity ecosystem across the region. As we implement this new strategy, we remain committed to our role as a trusted partner to the nonprofit community. While proactively contributing to increasing economic mobility, Philadelphia Foundation remains committed and will continue to provide flexible support for organizations meeting the needs of our region’s most vulnerable residents and remain responsive to and partner on emergent crises and opportunities to leverage effective community philanthropy.
Philadelphia Foundation is committed to the long view: investing with purpose, learning as we go, and standing alongside our partners to help ensure that every person in our region has a real chance to thrive. Ultimately, this work is about possibility and action. It’s about committing to a Greater Philadelphia where opportunity is not determined by zip code, background, or circumstance. By staying focused, working in true partnership, and holding ourselves accountable to results, we can turn today’s momentum into lasting progress.
**How It Works**
* Organizations will use this link to access our grant portal and complete a brief prequalification screening. The screener asks basic eligibility questions and routes organizations to the appropriate Request for Information (RFI).
* Through the RFI, organizations will share program information so we can understand their work and assess alignment with our grant offerings.
* Based on RFI responses, some organizations will be invited to respond to a Request for Proposal (RFP).
* RFP responses will be reviewed on a rolling basis.
* As in prior years, organizations may apply to one grant program per calendar year and may also apply to any Special Initiative funding opportunity for which they are eligible.
**Key Dates**
* **April 23:** RFI opens
* **June 5:** RFI closes
* **April through September:** RFIs will be reviewed on a rolling basis, with select organizations invited to respond to an RFP
* **September 30:** Deadline for organizations invited to submit an RFP
* **Funding disbursement:** June, September, and November
Click here to view **Frequently Asked Questions.**
Philadelphia Foundation currently offers the following:
-------------------------------------------------------
### Special Initiative Grants
Special Initiative Grants are targeted opportunities made possible through the generosity of  those who have established funds with us or through our partnerships with other organizations.
Learn More