Home / Nonprofits / Grants / Ralph C. Wilson, Jr. Foundation Arts & Culture Initiative
Process is closed
Ralph C. Wilson, Jr. Foundation Arts & Culture Initiative
=========================================================
In 2021, the Ralph C. Wilson, Jr. Foundation established endowment funds at the Community Foundation for Greater Buffalo to support arts and culture in the eight counties of Western New York, plus Monroe County, in recognition of the key role arts and culture organizations play in a thriving economy.
Since the inception of the Arts & Culture Initiative (ACI), the Community Foundation has prioritized community feedback in the creation of this annual funding opportunity. Click here to learn more about the history of this grant process.
One grant opportunity is available in 2026: General Operating Micro Grants of up to $2,500 for arts & culture organizations with less than one full-time staff member to execute immediate programming.
The ***Capacity-Building & General Operating grant*** *process will open next in 2028****.***
### How to Apply
Applications are submitted electronically online through the Foundant Grant Lifecycle Manager. **No paper**, **emailed**, or **pdf** applications are accepted.
**NOTE: The “APPLY NOW” button only appears here when the process is open.**
*For Monroe County arts organizations: To simplify the process and communication, the Rochester Area Community Foundation will distribute funding for Monroe County. Our expectation, where possible, is the funding will continue to align with the parameters set by the fund annually.*
#### Grant Opportunity
One grant opportunity is available in 2026:
* **General Operating Micro Grants** of up to $2,500 for arts & culture organizations with less than one full-time staff member to execute immediate programming.
Applications will be reviewed by experienced external evaluators who are artists, arts practitioners and arts administrators representing all nine Western New York counties. Each county will be awarded a minimum of two Micro Grants, assuming eligible applications have been received in each county.
*The****Capacity-Building & General Operating****grant process will open next in 2028.*
#### Timeline
* **Monday, August 3**: Process opens
* **Early June:** Please see below for in-person and virtual Training Sessions
* **Friday, September 11, 4 p.m**: Process closes, no exceptions
* **Early November**: Decision notifications
#### Eligibility
* Small to mid-sized 501(c)(3) nonprofit organizations that have arts and culture as core to their mission.
Exceptions may be made for the core mission in rural communities with limited independent arts and cultural organizations. Exceptions must be granted by the Community Foundation in writing. Please write to Yuki at yukinr@cfgb.org to explain the unique circumstances in your rural community by August 28, 2026.
* Applicant organizations must be physically located in and/or operate in one or more of nine counties – Allegany, Cattaraugus, Chautauqua, Erie, Genesee, Monroe, Niagara, Orleans, Wyoming.
* Applicant organizations must have had an operating budget of no more than $500,000 in their most recently completed fiscal year. NOTE: We look at the operating expenses when determining the operating budget size of an organization.
* While organizations undergoing significant capital projects resulting in significantly reduced programming are eligible to apply, organizations with fully active programming will be prioritized.
* The 13 organizations named by Ralph C. Wilson, Jr. Foundation receiving direct, yearly funding are not eligible.
* Fiscal sponsorships are acceptable; the fiscal sponsor does not need to meet above criteria but the applicant organization does.
#### Frequently Asked Questions
* Click here to review frequently asked questions.
#### Contact Information
***For arts organizations based in the eight counties (excludes Monroe County):***
Please direct all questions to Yuki Numata Resnick, Senior Director of Arts and Culture, at yukinr@cfgb.org.
***For Monroe County arts organizations:***
For general questions about the Arts & Culture Initiative, please reach out to Yuki Numata Resnick, Senior Director of Arts and Culture, at yukinr@cfgb.org.
For specific inquiries about the application and application logistics, please reach out to Annette Jiménez Gleason at ajimenezgleason@racf.org
#### Training Sessions
Sign up here to attend a training Session.
* **Monday, June 8, 5pm**: In-Person Training Session at Arts Council for Wyoming County
* **Tuesday, June 9, 5pm**: In-Person Training Session at Tri-County Arts Council
* **Wednesday, June 10, 12:30pm**: Virtual Training Session. Click here for Zoom link.
A recording of the Information Session will appear here shortly after Information Sessions have been completed.
#### Additional Information
Click here for the Micro Grant Application
Click here for the Micro Grant Evaluation
Click here to download detailed additional information
### Questions? Reach out to our team.
#### Yuki Numata Resnick
For general questions
yukinr@cfgb.org
* Receive Funding or Support
+ Grants
+ Scholarships