* Facebook
* Twitter
* Instagram
* You Tube
* LinkedIn
* Home
* Your Government
+ - * Mayor’s Office
+ About the Mayor
* City Council
+ Responses to City Council
+ City Council Meetings and Minutes
* Office of the City Controller
+ About the City Controller
* Integrity and Transparency
* All Departments
- * Business Administration (BA)
+ Bureau of Human Resources (HR)
+ Bureau of Information Technology (IT)
+ Bureau of Treasury
+ Bureau of Building Maintenance
* Department of Economic and Community Development
+ Code Enforcement
+ City Planning and Zoning
+ Office of Economic Development
+ Office of Community Development
+ Grants
- * Department of Public Works
+ Bureau of Engineering
+ Bureau of Garages
+ Bureau of Highways
+ Bureau of Refuse & Recycling
* Parks and Recreation
* Scranton Police Department (SPD)
* Scranton Fire Department (SFD)
* Law Department
* Public Health
- * Boards, Commissions, and Authorities
* Scranton School District
* Scranton Single Tax Office
* Lackawanna Tax Claim Bureau
* Payroll Prep Tax Information
* Services
+ Payment and Fee Information
+ Organizing Events in Scranton
+ - * Find a Form
* Handicapped Parking Requests
* Lead Safety & Testing
* Rental Licensing
* City Archives
- * Projects Across Scranton
* Stormwater Management
* Floodplain Management
* Parking
* Business
+ - * City Contracts
* Building Permits and Contractor Information
- * Open Bid Opportunities
- * Loans, Grants, & Tax Credits
* Steps to Start a Business in Scranton
* Our Community
+ - * Community Partners & Resources
- * Community News & Announcements
- * What is a Code Blue Alert?
* About Scranton
+ - * Work From Here!
- * Visit Scranton!
- * Partner Cities
* News
* Bid Opportunities
* Events
* Career Opportunities
* Contact
Department of Economic and Community DevelopmentGrants
Grants
======
Page Sections
Low-to-Moderate Income Requirements
Community Development Grants
Business Development Grants
Loans, Grants, and Tax Credits
The Grants Department is responsible for distributing grants for community agencies and local businesses. This includes all city and community applications where the city is serving as the fiscal agent and applicant.
This alignment improves the effectiveness and success of the city’s grant applications. This department coordinates grant applications with the needs identified in the capital budget and results in efficiently allocated funds for city projects.
#### **Tricia Zilaitis, Grant Manager**
**Office Hours:**
Monday-Friday | 8:00 AM to 4:30 PM
**Phone:**
570.558.4475
**Email:**
tzilaitis@scrantonpa.gov
#### **Low to Moderate Income Requirement**
Various programs for Scranton business and non-profits include Low-to-Moderate area requirements.
Specific information can be found by reviewing our map below.
* Facebook
* Twitter
* Instagram
* You Tube
* LinkedIn
Quick Links
-----------
* Bid Opportunities
* Events
* Career Opportunities
* Contact
City of Scranton
----------------
340 N Washington Ave
Scranton, PA 18503
(570) 348-4100
Copyright © City of Scranton, Pennsylvania.
All Rights Reserved.
* Privacy Policy
####
[ Placeholder content for popup link ]
WordPress Download Manager - Best Download Management Plugin
Close
Skip to content
Open toolbar
Accessibility Tools
Accessibility Tools
* Increase TextIncrease Text
* Decrease TextDecrease Text
* GrayscaleGrayscale
* High ContrastHigh Contrast
* Negative ContrastNegative Contrast
* Light BackgroundLight Background
* Links UnderlineLinks Underline
* Readable FontReadable Font
* Reset
Reset
* FeedbackFeedback