* Free Things to Do
* Family Fun
* Arts & Culture
* Tours & Sightseeing
* Outdoor Adventure
* Shopping
* Health & Wellness
* Pittsburgh Sports Teams
* Casinos & Gaming
* Film Festivals
* Home
* Things to Do
Things to Do
============
Forge On Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh was forged in fire, but today we’re constantly creating new experiences. Our festivals make our neighborhoods come alive in color and culture. Our world-class productions in the Cultural District spark. Our fan-friendly sports events ignite your pride. Our distinct four seasons ensure every visit is unique, and our award-winning culinary scene will make you stop mid-bite.
Sip locally crafted beverages. Explore renowned museums. And discover something unexpected around every corner.
You may want to extend your trip by a day or two. Trust us, we understand.
2026 Visitor’s Guide to Spring in Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh is the perfect place to get out and enjoy the first warm weather of the year, as well as…
Details
Visit Real Pittsburgh Places Mentioned on ​‘The Pitt’
The Pitt, HBO’s Emmy award-winning medical drama, has become must-watch TV this year, as it airs its second season. While…
Details
Best Food at PNC Park
​Spending the day watching baseball at PNC Park is a real treat.
Details
Events This Week in Pittsburgh
What's happening in Pittsburgh this week, you ask?
Learn More
Top Free Things to Do in Pittsburgh
​Who said you have to spend money to have a good time?
Learn More
Top 25 Things to Do in Pittsburgh
Wondering what there is to see in Pittsburgh? We’ve put together an extensive list of must-visit…
Learn More
Pittsburgh Sports
In Pittsburgh, we bleed black and gold.
Learn More
Family Fun
Learn More
Arts & Culture
Experience the Pulse of Pittsburgh Arts & Culture
Learn More
Restaurants & Culinary
Bold Flavor, Forged in Pittsburgh
Learn More
Pittsburgh Craft Breweries
Cheers to a city that is full of craft beer culture.
Learn More
Please enable JavaScript to show the Partner Listings listings.