Skip to main content
Close
Download the AppGet your news faster with our mobile experience
Install
News
News
Firefighters make quick work of house fire in Providence
The Providence Fire Department says it made quick work of a house fire Friday morning.
Car falls into river in Stonington
A car fell into a river in Stonington, Connecticut, right over the Rhode Island border.
Cape Cod leaders worried over Bourne Bridge funds
Leaders of Cape Cod are sounding the alarm about finding funds to replace the Bourne Bridge.Both Cape Cod bridges need to be replaced or rehabilitated by 2029.W
Taunton fire victim speaks out after attempted murder charge dropped
Anne Coffin, who lived on the first floor of the Grant Street home, said she is still trying to process losing everything.
LocalNation & WorldConnect To CongressVideosOffbeatEntertainmentPoliticsArmstrong Army StrongInside Your WorldAmazing AmericaBeyond The PodiumSoarSpotlight on AmericaHealthy HomeFull Measure with Sharyl AttkissonShow Us Something GoodNBC 10 News at 4SubmissionsWashington Bridge ClosureWJAR 75th AnniversaryPodcastsKaren Read Murder TrialBrown University ShootingCriminally Obsessed
Weather
Current Weather
Cranston
Mostly Sunny
50F
58
/
36
Today
58
/
36
Saturday
56
/
41
Sunday
57
/
40
Latest Weathercast
Latest Weathercast
TrafficClosingsRadarMapsSkycam NetworkWeather BlogHurricane TrackerStorm Team 10 VisitSki and Board Report
Sports
Sports
Mike Vrabel says he takes accountability for distraction, doesn't address specifics
Patriots coach Mike Vrabel said he is taking accountability for actions that have created a distraction for New England without addressing specifics about phot
Sabres rally to beat Bruins 3-1, take 2-1 lead in NHL playoff series
Bowen Byram scored a minute after Boston missed a penalty shot, and Alex Tuch broke a third-period tie to help Buffalo come from behind and beat the Bruins.
Red Sox find new home on radio dial in Rhode Island
Beginning May 1, the Red Sox Radio Network affiliate in the state will move from 103.7 WEEI to B101.
Los Angeles Olympics sells 4 million tickets in first drop
More than 4 million tickets have already been sold for the 2028 Los Angeles Olympics.
Boston BruinsBoston CelticsBoston Red SoxNew England PatriotsTennisExtrasOlympicsTICKETSPerfect 10City GuideTeam PlayerRhody Hoops RoundupWorld Cup
NBC 10 I-TEAM
NBC 10 I-TEAM
NBC 10 I-Team: Police recruit hurt in punching drill; prompts changes at training academy
A police recruit suffered a broken bone near his eye during a training exercise at the Rhode Island Municipal Training Academy, leading to changes.
NBC 10 I-Team: More doctors go concierge, leaving gaps in Rhode Island primary care
More Rhode Island doctors are switching to concierge-style care, improving access for some patients but worsening the state’s primary care shortage.
Why AI-generated headshots can backfire
You've probably seen them on LinkedIn recently, perfectly polished headshots that look a little too good to be true.
NBC 10 I-Team: Suspect said he set fire to Taunton house to avoid torture
The man accused of setting a house fire in Taunton Tuesday told officers he did it to escape being tortured.
Ask AlisonOn Your DimeConsumer AlertCrisis in the Classroom
Politics
Watch
Live
Now
50°
Sat
54°
Sun
57°
Search
Search
User Icon
Watch
Search
* NewsDown Arrow
+ Local
+ Nation & World
+ Connect To Congress
+ Videos
+ Offbeat
+ Entertainment
+ Politics
+ Armstrong Army Strong
+ Inside Your World
+ Amazing America
- Newsletter Sign Up
+ Beyond The Podium
+ Soar
+ Spotlight on America
+ Healthy Home
+ Full Measure with Sharyl Attkisson
+ Show Us Something Good
+ NBC 10 News at 4
+ Submissions
+ Washington Bridge Closure
+ WJAR 75th Anniversary
+ Podcasts
+ Karen Read Murder Trial
+ Brown University Shooting
+ Criminally Obsessed
- Newsletter Sign Up
* WeatherDown Arrow
+ Weather Home
+ Traffic
+ Closings
+ Radar
+ Maps
+ Skycam Network
+ Weather Blog
+ Hurricane Tracker
+ Storm Team 10 Visit
+ Ski and Board Report
* SportsDown Arrow
+ Sports Home
+ Boston Bruins
+ Boston Celtics
+ Boston Red Sox
+ New England Patriots
+ Tennis
+ Extras
+ Olympics
+ TICKETS
+ Perfect 10
+ City Guide
+ Team Player
+ Rhody Hoops Roundup
+ World Cup
* NBC 10 I-TEAMDown Arrow
+ NBC 10 I-TEAM Home
+ Ask Alison
+ On Your Dime
+ Consumer Alert
+ Crisis in the Classroom
* PoliticsDown Arrow
+ Politics Home
+ 10 News Conference
+ Connect to Congress
* Chime inDown Arrow
+ Chime in Home
+ Galleries
+ Upload Your Media
* FeaturesDown Arrow
+ Features Home
+ Contests
+ Community Treasures
+ Champions In Action
+ For Pet's Sake
+ Health Check
+ Health Check Kids
+ Mmm! A Food Blog
+ Money Cents
+ Partner Spotlight
+ Real Estate Today
+ Sinclair Cares
+ Souper Bowl of Caring
+ Staying Aware
+ Wellness Wednesdays
* FinancialDown Arrow
+ Financial Home
+ Money Matters
* Studio 10Down Arrow
+ Studio 10 Home
+ Animals/Pets
+ Artists/Artisans
+ Cooking and Food
+ Events
+ Fitness
+ Health and Beauty
+ Home and Garden
+ Medical and Wellness
+ Place A Pet
+ Real Estate/Finance
+ Studio 10 Eats
* MoneyDown Arrow
+ Money Home
+ Deposits
+ Investing
+ Mortgages
+ Loans
+ Credit Cards
* HealthfitDown Arrow
+ Healthfit Home
+ Health Fit Connections
* Karen Read
* Memorials
* StationDown Arrow
+ Station Home
+ Team 10 Bios
+ 10 Cares
- Day of Giving 2025
+ Careers
+ News Releases
+ Mobile Apps
+ Contact
+ TV Listings
+ Scholarship
* Newsletter Sign Up
* Safe Driving
* LegalDown Arrow
+ Terms & Conditions
+ Copyright Notices
+ EEO Public File Report
+ FCC Info
+ FCC Applications
+ Public File Assistance
+ Contact
+ News Team
+ Careers
+ Contests
* facebook icon
* twitter icon
ACCESSIBILITY
Raimondo announces educational, employment opportunities for RI youth
=====================================================================
---
by NBC 10 NEWS
Mon, June 15, 2020 at 2:33 PM
Updated Mon, June 15, 2020 at 6:29 PM
Gov. Gina Raimondo (Pool)
Comment on this story0Comment
Share storyShare
#### topics:
* Cranston
* NBCUNIVERSAL MEDIA, LLC
* Rhode Island,United States
* NBC
* education
* Jessica A. Botelho
* Brian Crandall
* Gina Raimondo
PROVIDENCE, RI (WJAR) — Students who “suffered learning losses during the peak of Rhode Island’s COVID 19 health crisis” are getting an opportunity to enhance their skills this summer through a newly launched educational initiative.
“There’s a lot of fun classes we’re making available,” Gov. Gina Raimondo said Monday during her daily coronavirus press briefing, announcing the 2020 Summer Academy for Integrated Learning, or SAIL.
“There’s a lot of fun classes we’re making available,” Gov. Gina Raimondo said Monday, June 15, 2020, during her daily coronavirus press briefing, announcing the 2020 Summer Academy for Integrated Learning, or SAIL. (Pool)
SAIL is a temporary program for public school students in Pre-K through grade 12.
The Rhode Island Department of Education’s website notes that the goal is to give children access to “a range of academic and enrichment educational opportunities that provide project-based learning, student-led seminars, and other learning opportunities that will promote student participation and engagement and growth and development.”
While SAIL will serve students across the state, it will prioritize students in Central Falls, Pawtucket, Providence, and Woonsocket.
Raimondo said she hopes children -- and parents -- will be interested in the program.
“It’s free. It’s available to anyone. It’s excellent curriculum,” she said.
The website notes that the program is available from June 22, 2020 to August 28, 2020.
Raimondo said another initiative, the COVID-19 Response Summer Jobs Program, seeks to help employ the state’s youth.
The program, which is funded by the Governor's Workforce Board, has federal funds available to subsidize summer jobs for youth ages 16 to 24.
“They are looking to hire young people,” Raimondo said.
The website notes that the initiative “will allow youth to contribute to the COVID-19 recovery, serve their community, build workplace skills, and earn money.” It also noted that job opportunities must be related to the state’s efforts to respond to and recover from the pandemic.
Meanwhile, the governor reminded the public that she previously set June 29 as the official date for camps to reopen with new precautions.
The rules, which she announced in May, include keeping kids in groups of 15 or less that don’t mix with others.
Camps will have to screen kids for illness before they enter the property and adults will have to wear masks.
Some camps have made the decision to cancel this summer, like the Girl Scouts, as well as the City of Cranston.
Raimondo also previously said sports camps are allow to reopen.
“The guidelines for reopening are available on ReopeningRI.com,” she said.
*(NBC 10's Brian Crandall and Jessica A. Botelho contributed to this report.)*
Trending
--------
Man stabbed while walking dog in Pawtucket
A man was stabbed in Pawtucket Thursday night while walking his dog.
NBC 10 I-Team: More doctors go concierge, leaving gaps in Rhode Island primary care
More Rhode Island doctors are switching to concierge-style care, improving access for some patients but worsening the state’s primary care shortage.
NBC 10 I-Team: Police recruit hurt in punching drill; prompts changes at training academy
A police recruit suffered a broken bone near his eye during a training exercise at the Rhode Island Municipal Training Academy, leading to changes.
Silver Alert issued for missing Cumberland man
Cumberland police are asking for help finding a missing man.
Taunton fire victim speaks out after attempted murder charge dropped
Anne Coffin, who lived on the first floor of the Grant Street home, said she is still trying to process losing everything.
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
---------------
"Local"
4
Firefighters make quick work of house fire in Providence
3
Taunton fire victim speaks out after attempted murder charge dropped
3
Seekonk Navy SEAL recalls Apollo 1969 splashdown, hidden champagne toast
3
Vandalism, break-ins frustrate residents near former Memorial Hospital property
ACCESSIBILITY
Download Our Mobile Apps:
* Terms & Conditions
* Copyright Notices
* EEO Public File Report
* FCC Info
* FCC Applications
* Public File Assistance
* Contact
* News Team
* Careers
* Contests
* News
* Weather
* Sports
* Privacy Policy
* Cookie Policy
* Do Not Sell or Share
* Cookie Preferences
* facebook icon
* twitter icon
2026 Sinclair, Inc.