Skip to main content
Search
Menu
Close
* Undergraduate study
* Postgraduate study
* Professional study
* Alumni
* Business and enterprise
* Cambridge students
* News
* Jobs
* Research
* Colleges and Departments
* Staff pages
* About the University
Fixing the roads
================
Tolls saved Britain from pothole hell in the Industrial Revolution. The ‘turnpike’ toll road system deserves far more credit for improving roads in 18th-century England and Wales.
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
* Learn more
* Find your course
* Learn more
* Find your course
Undergraduate
Learn more  about undergraduate study
Find your  undergraduate course
Postgraduate
Learn more  about postgraduate study
Find your  postgraduate course
The Rokos School of Government: shaping tomorrow's leaders
----------------------------------------------------------
The Rokos School of Government: shaping tomorrow's leaders
Video of The Rokos School of Government: shaping tomorrow&#039;s leaders
Why Cambridge?
--------------
Find out why studying at Cambridge is for you
How to apply
------------
Step-by-step guidance on the applications process
Undergraduate study
Postgraduate study
Libraries
Museums
Research
Business and enterprise
Alumni
Sport
News
----
Updates from across the University
### News - Monkeys learn to eat soil so they can tolerate high-calorie junk food
Gibraltar’s famous macaques have started eating soil, a behaviour linked to their access to tourist snacks.
### Features - The researcher analysing far-right rhetoric on Facebook
Meet Raphael Hernandes, a PhD student at Cambridge Digital Humanities and Selwyn College. He is a researcher and data journalist specialising in AI, journalism, and society.
### News - Helping young conservationists plug in and shine bright
The Student Conference in Conservation Science has connected thousands of young conservationists determined to tackle the biodiversity crisis. This year it celebrates its 25th anniversary.
See more news
Events
------
Concerts, lectures, sports events, and more
### Family - Wandlebury Archaeology Open Day 2026: Saturday 2 May
The Cambridge Archaeological Unit and Department of Archaeology are returning to Wandlebury Country Park. Join them for their student training excavation and discover more of its fascinating history.
### Admissions - Subject Masterclasses: Tuesday 5 to Thursday 21 May
Explore what it's like to study your favourite subject and experience typical undergraduate teaching at Cambridge. Sign up for an online Subject Masterclass.
### Exhibitions - War Craft at the Fitzwilliam Museum: until Sunday 23 August
Bringing together objects crafted in the moment and aftermath of historic battles, modern warfare and contemporary war, War Craft shares the stories of the soldiers, civilians and prisoners of war who made them.
See more events
Student perspectives
--------------------
Making friends at Cambridge University
--------------------------------------
Making friends at Cambridge University
Video of Making friends at Cambridge University
We spoke to students from the African Caribbean Society, Islamic Society, Midlands Society, Northern Society and Cymdeithas y Mabinogi (Welsh Society) about how societies – and their Cambridge Colleges – helped them settle in and make friends.
YouTube
Cambridge on Instagram
----------------------
Spring sunlight illuminates the historic charm of Gisborne Court at Peterhouse College. See more of Cambridge's places and people by following us on Instagram.
Instagram
Follow us
---------
Facebook
Instagram
LinkedIn
Tik Tok
Twitter
YouTube
### University of Cambridge
© 2026 University of Cambridge
* Contact the University
* Accessibility statement
* Freedom of information
* Privacy policy and cookies
* Statement on Modern Slavery
* Terms and conditions
* University A-Z
### Study at Cambridge
* Undergraduate
* Postgraduate
* Professional and continuing education
* Executive and professional education
### About the University
* How the University and Colleges work
* Give to Cambridge
* Jobs
* Maps
* Visiting the University
* Cambridge University Press & Assessment
### Research at Cambridge
* Research news
* About research at Cambridge
* Public engagement