This notice has expired. Check the NIH Guide for active opportunities and notices.
EXPIRED
Department of Health and Human Services
Part 1. Overview Information
Participating Organization(s)
National Institutes of Health (NIH)
Components
of Participating Organizations
National Institute on Minority Health and Health
Disparities (NIMHD)
Funding Opportunity Title
Research Centers in Minority Institutions
(RCMI) (U54)
Activity Code
U54 Specialized Center- Cooperative Agreements
Announcement Type
Reissue of PAR-11-132
Related Notices
* August 25, 2017 - This RFA has been reissued as RFA-MD-17-006.
Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) Number
RFA-MD-17-003
Companion Funding Opportunity
None
Number of
Applications
Only one application per institution is allowed, as
defined in Section III. 3. Additional
Information on Eligibility.
Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) Number(s)
93.307
Funding Opportunity Purpose
The purpose of the Research Centers in Minority
Institutions (RCMI) Program is to expand the national capacity for research
in the health sciences by providing cooperative agreement support to
institutions that offer doctorate degrees in the health professions or in a
health-related science and have a historical and current commitment to educating
underrepresented students, and for institutions that deliver health care
services, providing clinical services to medically underserved communities.
The primary goals of the RCMI specialized centers are to: (1) enhance
institutional research capacity within the areas of basic biomedical,
behavioral, and/or clinical research; (2) enable all levels of investigators
to become more successful in obtaining competitive extramural support,
especially from NIH, particularly on diseases that disproportionately impact
minority and other health disparity populations; (3) foster environments
conducive to career enhancement with a special emphasis on development of new
and early career investigators; (4) enhance the quality of all scientific
inquiry and promote research on minority health and health disparities; and
(5) establish sustainable relationships with community-based organizations
that will partner with the RCMI Institution.
Key Dates
Posted Date
December 9, 2016
Open Date (Earliest Submission Date)
February 7, 2017
Letter of Intent Due Date(s)
February 7, 2017
Application Due Date(s)
March 7, 2017, by 5:00 PM local time of applicant
organization. All types of non-AIDS applications allowed for this funding opportunity announcement are due on this date.
No late applications will be accepted for this funding
opportunity announcement.
Applicants are encouraged to apply early to allow adequate
time to make any corrections to errors found in the application during the
submission process by the due date.
AIDS Application Due Date(s)
Not Applicable
Scientific Merit Review
June 2017
Advisory Council Review
August 2017
Earliest Start Date
September 1, 2017
Expiration Date
March 8, 2017
Due Dates for E.O. 12372
Not Applicable
\*\* ELECTRONIC APPLICATION SUBMISSION REQUIRED\*\*
NIH’s new Application Submission System & Interface for
Submission Tracking (ASSIST) is available for the electronic preparation and
submission of multi-project applications through Grants.gov to NIH.
Applications to this FOA must be submitted electronically using ASSIST or an
institutional system-to-system solution; paper applications will not be
accepted. ASSIST replaces the Grants.gov downloadable forms currently used with
most NIH opportunities and provides many features to enable electronic
multi-project application submission and improve data quality, including:
pre-population of organization and PD/PI data, pre-submission validation of
many agency business rules and the generation of data summaries in the
application image used for review.
Required
Application Instructions
It is critical that applicants follow the instructions in
the Multi-Project Instructions for the SF424
(R&R) Application Guide, except where instructed to do otherwise (in
this FOA or in a Notice from the *NIH Guide for Grants and Contracts*)
and where instructions in the Application Guide are directly related to the
Grants.gov downloadable forms currently used with most NIH opportunities.
Conformance to all requirements (both in the Application Guide and the FOA)
is required and strictly enforced. Applicants must read and follow all
application instructions in the Application Guide as well as any
program-specific instructions noted in Section
IV. When the program-specific instructions deviate from those in the
Application Guide, follow the program-specific instructions. **Applications that
do not comply with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for review.**
Table of Contents
Part 1. Overview Information
Part 2. Full Text of the Announcement
Section
I. Funding Opportunity Description
Section II. Award Information
Section III. Eligibility Information
Section IV. Application and Submission
Information
Section V. Application Review Information
Section VI. Award Administration Information
Section VII. Agency Contacts
Section VIII. Other Information
Part 2.
Full Text of Announcement
Section I. Funding Opportunity Description
**Background/Purpose**
The mission of the National Institute on Minority Health and
Health Disparities (NIMHD) is to lead scientific research to improve minority
health and reduce health disparities. NIMHD recognizes the important role that
institutions with historical commitment to diverse individuals have played in supporting
scientific research and providing health care in underserved communities. These
institutions are uniquely positioned to engage minority populations in research
and in the translation of research advances into culturally competent,
measurable and sustained improvements in health outcomes, but often lack the
research infrastructure and capacity to conduct cutting edge health-related
research. The Research Centers in Minority Institutions (RCMI) program was
originally established by NIH in 1985 as a result of congressional interest in
the development of a program to expand the national capability for research in
the health sciences.
**NIMHD
Interest In Diversity**
The NIMHD’s mission is to conduct and support research,
training, health information dissemination, and other programs with respect to
minority health and health disparities. This funding opportunity seeks to
facilitate the development of research capacity in diverse institutions and
research education of students/faculty to pursue basic biomedical, behavioral,
and/or clinical research, particularly on diseases that disproportionately
impact racial/ethnic minorities and other health disparity populations.
**Programmatic
Approach**
Every facet of the United States scientific research enterprise from
basic laboratory research to clinical and translational research to policy
formation requires superior intellect, creativity and a wide range of skill
sets and viewpoints. NIH’s ability to help ensure that the nation remains a
global leader in scientific discovery and innovation is dependent upon a pool
of highly talented scientists from diverse backgrounds who will help to further
NIH's mission. See, NOT-OD-15-053.
This FOA provides support for specialized research centers in institutions that
offer doctoral degrees in the health professions or the sciences related to
health and have an historical and current commitment to educating underrepresented
students. The primary goals of the RCMI specialized centers are to: (1)
enhance institutional research capacity within the areas of basic biomedical,
behavioral and/or clinical research; (2) enable all levels of investigators to
become more successful in obtaining competitive extramural support, especially
from NIH, particularly on diseases that disproportionately impact minority and
other health disparity populations; (3) foster environments conducive to career
enhancement with a special emphasis on development of new and early career
investigators; (4) enhance the quality of all scientific inquiry and promote
research on minority health and health disparities; and (5) establish
sustainable relationships with community-based organizations that will partner
with the RCMI Institution..
Centers must have an explicit focus on one or more of the
following areas: basic biomedical, behavioral, and clinical research. Behavioral
and clinical research areas are expected to emphasize minority health and
health disparities. This focus can be demonstrated by any of the following:
* One or more research projects within the focus area.
* One or more mandatory cores having a primary emphasis on the focus
area (e.g., an Investigator Development Core that solicits and supports pilot projects
within the basic biomedical focus area.)
* Two or more mandatory cores having a joint emphasis in the focus area
along with one or both of the other areas (e.g., a Research Infrastructure Core
that provides methodological and statistical support for both basic biomedical
and clinical research, or an Investigator Development Core that solicits and
supports pilot projects in both clinical and behavioral research). In order for
the Investigator Development core to qualify as having a joint focus, there must
be a plan that one-third or more of supported pilot projects fall within the focus
area.
The RCMI program allows flexibility at the applicant
institution with respect to the types of research resources required to
accomplish research and investigator development goals. The most important
criterion for inclusion of any component in the proposed center is the extent
to which the activity or resource will enable the institution to achieve the
stated goals.
**Required
and Optional Cores of an RCMI -Specialized Center:**
The center must enhance institutional research capacity and
support the research needs of its investigators. The center must include the
following required components:
* Administrative Core
* Research Infrastructure Core
* Investigator Development Core
* Community Engagement Core
* Research Project(s)
In addition to these requirements, applications may also
include the following optional core:
* Recruitment Core
**Descriptions
of Required Cores**
*Administrative
Core*
The Administrative Core must be directed by the PD(s)/PI(s)
of the center and must provide administrative and logistical support for all
center activities. Further, the administrative core must provide career
enhancement activities for post-doctoral fellows and junior investigators and foster
synergy with other on-going career development activities at the institution
including any funded through NIH grants. Resources may be requested to support
seminars, workshops, and/or other career enhancement activities that promote
the recruitment, advancement, and retention of investigators in biomedical
research careers. In addition, the administrative core provides an assessment
of each proposed activity/core and assessment of the impact of the center in
terms of: enhancing the institutional infrastructure and environment necessary
to facilitate biomedical research in the areas identified by the applicant;
increasing productivity of investigators in peer-reviewed publications and
discovery; and increasing the institution's overall success in applying for and
obtaining extramural research funding.
*Research
Infrastructure Core: Methodology, Laboratory Technologies, Biostatistics, Informatics,
and Core Research Resources*
The goal of the core is to function in a synergistic way to
maximize the quality and productivity of the research projects proposed and the
pilot projects funded, as well as link RCMI faculty and scholars with other
researchers at the institution. Applicants may request resources to assist
investigators with developing design and analysis plans for studies. These
resources should be in the form of faculty-level expertise in research
methodology, specialized laboratory techniques, statistics, bioinformatics
and/or health informatics. Applicants may also propose to develop innovative research
programs that bridge research in study design, biostatistics, and research
ethics with other NIH supported centers including those of the Clinical and
Translational Science Awards (CTSA), Institutional Development Award (IDeA)
Program Infrastructure for Clinical and Translational Research, Resource
Centers for Minority Aging Centers (NIA) or other consortia. If biomedical
informatics resources are requested, applicants should consider both internal,
intra-institution and external interoperability to allow for communication
among awardees through the RCMI Translational Research Network (RTRN) and with
other research partners (e.g., universities, government, clinical research
networks, and pharmaceutical companies).
If core research resources are requested, they must be for
multiple users, including infrastructure applicable to various disciplines in
the institution (e.g., medicine, nursing, dentistry, pharmacy, public health,
biostatistics, epidemiology, bioengineering, etc.) for the benefit of researchers
and research projects. Standard operating procedures are required, and
participation in national or international quality control and standardization
efforts where appropriate. Proposed resources should be fully justified within
the context of the overall program goals, and not duplicate locally available
resources. The level of support requested must be justified by the projected
use by biomedical researchers from within the applicant institution. Laboratory
equipment, supplies, statistical and database software, and personnel are all
acceptable costs. Cost recovery for core support should be sought from funded
investigators.
For renewal applicants, it is important that the current
requested research infrastructure support builds upon or is complementary to
previous RCMI funding.
Minor alteration and renovation (A&R) to improve
existing research/core laboratories or animal facilities are allowed. This FOA
will provide up to $500,000 in direct costs for A&R in addition to the
overall direct cost cap, only in year one of the award period, as a one-time
cost expenditure for a center. Funds designated for A&R under this FOA
cannot support construction, modernization, or major alterations and renovation
of research facilities as defined in Section 10.1 of
the NIH Grants Policy Statement. A&R costs will be approved only for
facility improvements at the applicant organization. Proposed improvements at
consortium sites are not allowed.
*Investigator
Development Core*
An applicant must request support for the Investigator
Development Core with a pilot project program that: 1) allows researchers to
generate preliminary data for subsequent submission of grant applications,
particularly those that focus on research related to diseases that
disproportionately impact minority or other disparity populations, or that
address health disparities; or 2) develops new technologies that will better
position the institution to conduct basic biomedical research. Such funds must
be readily available and be accompanied by an organizational structure that
supports full compliance with regulatory requirements.
*Community
Engagement Core*
Applicants must describe activities designed to establish
long-term relationships with community based organizations in order to address
their health-related concerns, to promote participation in research and
recruitment and retention of study participants, and to disseminate findings
from research projects.
*Research Projects*
Applicants must specify the objectives of the research
project(s) that account for up to 30% of direct costs per year but not less
than 20%. Research projects may be proposed in areas of: 1) basic biomedical
research, and/or 2) behavioral research, and/or 3) clinical/health services
research. Applicants may propose one or more projects in any one area, any two
areas, or all three areas. The proposed behavioral or clinical/health services project(s)
will serve to advance scientific knowledge as it relates to minority health and
health disparities.
Minority health is the distinctive health characteristics
and attributes of racial/ethnic minority groups in the U.S. Minority health
research is the scientific investigation of these distinctive health characteristics
and attributes of the minority racial and/or ethnic groups. The research
questions may focus on protective factors for conditions where outcomes may be
better than expected including projects that evaluate mechanisms and
interventions to sustain or improve a health advantage. The research questions
may also address mechanisms and develop and evaluate interventions to reduce
health disparities within a race/ethnic group(s).
A health disparity is defined as a health difference that
adversely affects disadvantaged populations based on one or more of the
following categories of health outcomes:
* Higher incidence/prevalence
* Pre-mature and/or excessive mortality in diseases where
populations differ
* Burden of disease measured by Disability-Adjusted Life Years
(DALYS)
* Poorer health related quality of life and/or daily functioning
using standardized self-report measures
Health disparities research is a multi-disciplinary field of
study devoted to gaining greater scientific knowledge about the influence of
health determinants and defining mechanisms that lead to disparities and how
this knowledge is translated into interventions to reduce or eliminate adverse
health differences.
Applicants are encouraged to include projects of variable
size and duration over the 5 years. These projects may be led by more
established investigators or senior scientists at the institution or the most
qualified scientist regardless of rank.
**Descriptions
of Optional Core**
*Recruitment
Core*
This core may include hiring of investigators who have track
records of independent research support that includes current or recent support
(within the last two years) by NIH R-series, P-series, and/or U-series awards,
or other federal or non-federal awards and who can serve as mentors to junior
investigators. Institutions should develop outreach and recruitment strategies
to ensure that applicants from underrepresented backgrounds are in the pool of
applicants. These new faculty members may be provided to $100,000 direct costs per
year for up to two years to augment institutional support to establish their
research laboratories or program, acquire specialized equipment or partially
support a specialized collaborator, and support postdoctoral fellows and
technical assistants.
**Program
Evaluation by NIMHD**
The RCMI - Specialized Research Centers program will undergo
evaluation and assessment by the NIMHD. The evaluation of the program is
distinct from the individual award’s outcome evaluation (described in Section
IV.). While both evaluations address center outcomes, they differ in scope
(individual award vs. national program), and have different timelines and
metrics (PD/PI defined vs. programmatic goals specified below). The evaluation
will be carried out within four years after the release of this FOA.
Assessment will be developed based on metrics that will include, but are not
limited to:
* Increased collaborative basic biomedical, clinical, and/or
behavioral research to improve minority health and/or reduce and eliminate
health disparities through implementation of pilot/developmental studies,
NIH-funded studies and studies funded by other federal and non-federal
agencies;
* Development of innovative research programs, new tools and
technologies, and publications in high impact journals;
* Enhancement of institutional infrastructure for conducting
biomedical research including but not limited to: development of new cores and
biomedical resources, development of research capacity to support
multi-disciplinary research, leveraging of resources with institutional and
other NIH funded programs or consortia; and
* Engagement of a diverse group of scientists in biomedical
research which includes but is not limited to participation of individuals from
underrepresented backgrounds (i.e. racial and ethnic minorities, persons with
disabilities, or persons from disadvantaged backgrounds), women, early-stage
and experienced investigators with a track record of funding, and investigators
from various disciplines/departments and specialties.
The findings of this evaluation including information
available from previous NIH evaluations of the RCMI program will determine
whether the program is continued as configured, continued with modifications,
or discontinued. Should the findings indicate that the program is no longer
needed or is not effective in meeting the overall goals, NIMHD may also consider
terminating the program.
Technical Assistance Webinar
NIMHD will conduct a Technical Assistance webinar for
prospective applicants January 10, 2017 at 3:00 PM EST. Information about the
webinar will be published in the NIH Guide to Grants and Contracts and posted
on the NIMHD website at www.nimhd.nih.gov.
See Section VIII. Other
Information for award authorities and regulations.
Section II. Award Information
Funding Instrument
Cooperative Agreement: A support mechanism used when there
will be substantial Federal scientific or programmatic involvement.
Substantial involvement means that, after award, NIH scientific or program
staff will assist, guide, coordinate, or participate in project activities.
See Section VI.2 for additional information about the substantial involvement
for this FOA.
Application Types Allowed
New
Renewal
The OER
Glossary and the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide provide details on
these application types.
Funds Available and Anticipated Number of Awards
NIMHD intends to commit $ 20,000,000 in FY 2017 to fund 8-10 awards.
Award Budget
Applicants must focus on basic biomedical, behavioral,
and/or clinical research areas. Budgets are limited to $3,000,000 or less in
direct costs per year. While applications which include focus on all three
research areas may request the full amount, it is anticipated that
applications with focus on two research areas will request up to $2,250,000
in direct costs and those with focus on one research areas will request up to
$1,500,000. Significant justification is expected if requesting the maximum
limit, or if making a request beyond the anticipated level for a one or two
focus area application.
This FOA will also provide up to $500,000 in direct costs
for A&R in addition to the overall direct cost cap, only in year one of
the award period, as a one-time cost expenditure for a center
Award Project Period
The scope of the proposed project should determine the
project period. The maximum project period is 5 years.
NIH grants policies as
described in the *NIH Grants
Policy Statement* will apply to the
applications submitted and awards made in response to this FOA.
Section III. Eligibility
Information
1. Eligible Applicants
Eligible Organizations
Higher Education Institutions
* Public/State Controlled Institutions of Higher Education
* Private Institutions of Higher Education
The following types of Higher Education Institutions
are always encouraged to apply for NIH support as Public or Private
Institutions of Higher Education:
o Hispanic-serving Institutions
o Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs)
o Tribally Controlled Colleges and Universities (TCCUs)
o Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian Serving Institutions
o Asian American Native American Pacific Islander Serving
Institutions (AANAPISIs)
To be eligible for this FOA, the applicant institution must
be a domestic institution located in the United States and its territories
which:
1. Have received an average of less than $50 million per
year of NIH support for the past three fiscal years;
2. Award doctorate degrees in the health professions or the
sciences related to health;
3. Have a historical and current mission to educate students
from any of the populations that have been identified as underrepresented in
biomedical research as defined by the National Science Foundation NSF, see http://www.nsf.gov/statistics/wmpd/)
(i.e., African Americans or Blacks, Hispanic or Latino Americans, American
Indians, Alaska Natives, Native Hawaiians, U.S. Pacific Islanders, and persons
with disabilities); and
4. Have a documented track record of: (1) recruiting,
training and/or educating, and graduating underrepresented students as defined by
NSF (see above), which has resulted in increasing the institution's
contribution to the national pool of graduates from underrepresented
backgrounds who pursue biomedical research careers and, (2) for institutions
that deliver health care services, providing clinical services to medically
underserved communities.
Foreign Institutions
Non-domestic (non-U.S.) Entities (Foreign Institutions) **are
not** eligible to apply.
Non-domestic (non-U.S.) components of U.S. Organizations **are not** eligible
to apply.
Foreign components, as defined in
the *NIH Grants Policy Statement*, **are not** allowed.
Required Registrations
**Applicant
Organizations**
Applicant organizations must complete and maintain the
following registrations as described in the SF 424 (R&R) Application Guide
to be eligible to apply for or receive an award. All registrations must be
completed prior to the application being submitted. Registration can take 6
weeks or more, so applicants should begin the registration process as soon as
possible. The NIH
Policy on Late Submission of Grant Applications states that failure to
complete registrations in advance of a due date is not a valid reason for a
late submission.
* Dun and Bradstreet
Universal Numbering System (DUNS) - All registrations require that
applicants be issued a DUNS number. After obtaining a DUNS number, applicants
can begin both SAM and eRA Commons registrations. The same DUNS number must be
used for all registrations, as well as on the grant application.
* System for Award Management (SAM) (formerly CCR) Applicants must complete and maintain an active registration, **which
requires renewal at least annually**. The renewal process may require as much
time as the initial registration. SAM registration includes the assignment of a
Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Code for domestic organizations which
have not already been assigned a CAGE Code.
* NATO
Commercial and Government Entity (NCAGE) Code Foreign organizations must
obtain an NCAGE code (in lieu of a CAGE code) in order to register in SAM.
* eRA Commons - Applicants
must have an active DUNS number and SAM registration in order to complete the
eRA Commons registration. Organizations can register with the eRA Commons as
they are working through their SAM or Grants.gov registration. eRA Commons
requires organizations to identify at least one Signing Official (SO) and at
least one Program Director/Principal Investigator (PD/PI) account in order to
submit an application.
* Grants.gov Applicants
must have an active DUNS number and SAM registration in order to complete the Grants.gov
registration.
**Program
Directors/Principal Investigators (PD(s)/PI(s))**
All PD(s)/PI(s) must have an eRA Commons account.
PD(s)/PI(s) should work with their organizational officials to either
create a new account or to affiliate their existing account with the applicant
organization in eRA Commons. If the PD/PI is also the organizational Signing
Official, they must have two distinct eRA Commons accounts, one for each role.
Obtaining an eRA Commons account can take up to 2 weeks.
Eligible Individuals (Program Director/Principal
Investigator)
Any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources
necessary to carry out the proposed research as the Program Director(s)/Principal
Investigator(s) (PD(s)/PI(s)) is invited to work with his/her organization to
develop an application for support. Individuals from underrepresented racial
and ethnic groups as well as individuals with disabilities are always
encouraged to apply for NIH support.
For institutions/organizations proposing multiple PDs/PIs, visit
the Multiple Program Director/Principal Investigator Policy and submission
details in the Senior/Key Person Profile (Expanded) Component of the SF424
(R&R) Application Guide.
2. Cost Sharing
This FOA does not require cost sharing as defined in the *NIH
Grants Policy Statement*.
3. Additional Information on Eligibility
Number of Applications
Only one application per institution (normally identified by
having a unique DUNS number or NIH IPF number) is allowed.
The NIH will not accept duplicate or highly overlapping
applications under review at the same time. This means that the NIH will
not accept:
* A new (A0) application that is submitted before issuance of the
summary statement from the review of an overlapping new (A0) or resubmission
(A1) application.
* A resubmission (A1) application that is submitted before issuance
of the summary statement from the review of the previous new (A0) application.
* An application that has substantial overlap with another
application pending appeal of initial peer review (see NOT-OD-11-101).
Section IV. Application and Submission Information
1. Requesting an Application
Package
A button to access the online ASSIST system is available in Part 1 of this FOA. See your
administrative office for instructions if you plan to use an institutional
system-to-system solution.
Most applicants will use NIH’s ASSIST system to prepare and
submit applications through Grants.gov to NIH. Applications prepared and
submitted using applicant systems capable of submitting electronic
multi-project applications to Grants.gov will also be accepted.
2. Content and Form of Application Submission
It is critical that applicants follow the instructions in
the Multi-Project Instructions for the SF424
(R&R) Application Guide, including Supplemental
Grant Application Instructions except where instructed in this funding
opportunity announcement to do otherwise and where instructions in the
Application Guide are directly related to the Grants.gov downloadable forms
currently used with most NIH opportunities. Conformance to the requirements in
the Application Guide is required and strictly enforced. Applications that are
out of compliance with these instructions may be delayed or not accepted for
review.
For information on Application Submission and Receipt, visit Frequently
Asked Questions Application Guide, Electronic Submission of Grant
Applications.
Letter of Intent
Although a letter of intent is not required, is not binding,
and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application, the information
that it contains allows IC staff to estimate the potential review workload and
plan the review.
By the dates listed in Part 1.
Overview Information, prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of
intent that includes the following information:
* Descriptive title of proposed activity
* Name(s), address(es), and telephone number(s) of the PD(s)/PI(s)
* Names of other key personnel
* Participating institution(s)
* Number and title of this funding opportunity
The letter of intent should be sent to:
Thomas Vollberg, Sr., PhD
Telephone: 301-594-8770
Fax: 301-480-4049
Email: [email protected]
Page Limitations
| **Component Types Available in ASSIST** | **Research Strategy/Program Plan Page Limits** |
| --- | --- |
| Overall | 6 pages |
| Admin Core (use for Administrative Core) | 12 pages |
| Core (Use for Research Infrastructure Core; Investigator Development Core; Community Engagement Core; and Recruitment Core) | 6 pages |
| Project (Use for Research Projects) | 12 pages |
Additional page limits described in the SF424 Application
Guide and the Table of
Page Limits must be followed.
Instructions for the Submission of Multi-Component
Applications
The following section supplements the instructions found in
the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide, and should be used for preparing a
multi-component application.
The application should consist of the following components:
* Overall: required
* Administrative Core: required
* Research Infrastructure Core: required
* Investigator Development Core: required
* Community Engagement Core: required
* Recruitment Core: optional
* Research Project(s): required
Overall Component
When preparing your application in ASSIST, use Component
Type Overall .
All instructions in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide
must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.
SF424 (R&R) Cover (Overall)
Complete entire form.
PHS 398 Cover Page Supplement (Overall)
Note: Human Embryonic Stem Cell
lines from other components should be repeated in cell line table in Overall
component.
Research & Related Other
Project Information (Overall)
Follow standard instructions.
**Other
Attachments:** The application must include a single attachment
titled "Institutional Information" that provides a description and
evidence of the institution's explicit accomplishments in the education of
students from backgrounds nationally underrepresented in biomedical research, or
efforts to provide services to underserved communities.
* For institutions whose historical mission explicitly states that
it was founded to educate students from nationally underrepresented backgrounds
in biomedical research (i.e., underrepresented racial and ethnic groups
[African Americans, Hispanic Americans, American Indians or Alaska Natives,
Native Hawaiians, U.S. Pacific Islanders, and individuals with disabilities]
and/or students from financially disadvantaged backgrounds, as defined in NOT-OD-15-053) provide the institution's original
mission statement and any other information that justified the institution's
creation and describes its main functions and services provided.
* For institutions whose mission statement does not explicitly
state that they were founded to educate any of the underrepresented groups
mentioned above but have a demonstrable historical track record of recruiting,
retaining, training, and graduating underrepresented students, the institution
must provide information and current figures compared to baseline data from ten
years ago that show how the institution's historical track record of training
and graduating underrepresented students in biomedical and behavioral-related
sciences has improved significantly and how much it has contributed to a
substantial increase in the national pool of graduates from underrepresented
backgrounds who have pursued or are pursuing biomedical research careers.
* For institutions that deliver health care services, provide information
on clinical services to medically underserved communities.
Project/Performance Site
Location(s) (Overall)
Enter primary site only.
*A summary of Project/Performance
Sites in the Overall section of the assembled application image in eRA Commons
compiled from data collected in the other components will be generated upon
submission.*
Research & Related
Senior/Key Person Profile (Overall)
Include only the Project
Director/Principal Investigator (PD/PI) and any multi-PDs/PIs (if applicable to
this FOA) for the entire application.
*A summary of Senior/Key Persons
followed by their Biographical Sketches in the Overall section of the assembled
application image in eRA Commons will be generated upon submission.*
Budget (Overall)
The only budget information
included in the Overall component is the Estimated Project Funding section of
the SF424 (R&R) Cover.
*A budget summary in the Overall
section of the assembled application image in eRA Commons compiled from
detailed budget data collected in the other components will be generated upon
submission.*
PHS 398 Research Plan (Overall)
**Specific Aims:** Describe the
specific aims for the Center and summarize how the proposed components and
activities will: 1) enhance institutional research capacity for basic
biomedical, behavioral and/or clinical research; 2) enable investigators at the
institution to become more successful in obtaining competitive extramural
research support to study diseases that disproportionately impact minority and
other health disparity populations; 3) foster environments conducive to career enhancement
with a special emphasis on development of new and early career investigators; 4)
enhance the quality of all scientific inquiry and promote research on minority
health and health disparities; and 5) enhance collaborations and partnerships
with community-based organizations.
**Research Strategy:** Each
applicant must assess and plan a program to address its own research needs and
vision. The applicant must describe and justify how existing and requested
resources will be utilized and leveraged to implement the institutional plan to
develop, expand, and maintain an environment and framework suitable for
achieving the objectives of their center. Moreover, plans for enhancement of
biomedical research capacity must be consistent with the long-range goals of
the applicant institution.
The overall research strategy
section must include a Program Overview that describes:
* The significance of the biomedical research efforts that are a
part of its institutional priorities.
* An analysis of organizational, educational, and scientific
strengths and weaknesses.
* How the proposed activities will address research infrastructure
need.
* Goals for the center during proposed project period.
* A summary of the key activities that will be conducted to achieve
each of the proposed goals.
* Innovation of the proposed activities.
* Specific institutional commitments that will be made to support
the Center goals.
* The area(s) addressed by the application as a whole (i.e., basic
science, and/or behavioral research, and/or clinical research) and the rationale
for seeking support for the area(s), and if multiple areas are proposed,
provide rationale for the importance of the larger program to the overall
goals.
**Letters of Support:** Applicants
must provide letters from the appropriate high-ranking institutional
official(s) that:
* Indicate the commitment of the institution to the center goals
and how the center activities will be integral to the broad institutional
vision for biomedical and or behavioral research.
* Specify any institutional support, for example financial support,
dedicated space, salary support for professional or administrative staff,
interface with other grants, centers, and initiatives, etc.
* Indicate the commitment of the institution to participate in the
RTRN consortia and other national consortia working towards developing,
adopting and implementing best practices in biomedical research and training.
**Resource
Sharing Plan:** Individuals are required to comply with the
instructions for the Resource Sharing Plans as provided in the SF424 (R&R)
Application Guide.
**Appendix:** Do not use the
Appendix to circumvent page limits. Follow all instructions for the Appendix as
described in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide.
PHS Assignment Request Form (Overall)
All instructions in the SF424
(R&R) Application Guide must be followed.
Administrative Core
When preparing your application in ASSIST, use Component
Type Admin Core.
All instructions in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide
must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.
SF424 (R&R) Cover (Administrative
Core)
Complete only the following fields:
* Applicant Information
* Type of Applicant (optional)
* Descriptive Title of Applicant’s Project
* Proposed Project Start/Ending Dates
PHS 398 Cover Page Supplement (Administrative
Core)
Enter Human Embryonic Stem Cells in
each relevant component.
Research & Related Other
Project Information (Administrative Core)
**Human Subjects:** Answer only
the Are Human Subjects Involved? and 'Is the Project Exempt from Federal
regulations? questions.
**Vertebrate Animals:** Answer
only the Are Vertebrate Animals Used? question.
**Project Narrative:** Do not
complete. Note: ASSIST screens will show an asterisk for this attachment
indicating it is required. However, eRA systems only enforce this requirement
in the Overall component and applications will not receive an error if omitted
in other components.
Project /Performance Site
Location(s) (Administrative Core)
List all performance sites that
apply to the specific component.
*Note: The Project Performance
Site form allows up to 300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for
additional entries.*
Research & Related
Senior/Key Person Profile (Administrative Core)
* In the Project Director/Principal Investigator section of the
form, use Project Role of Other with Category of Core Lead and provide a
valid eRA Commons ID in the Credential field.
* In the additional Senior/Key Profiles section, list Senior/Key
persons that are working in the component.
* Include a single Biographical Sketch for each Senior/Key person
listed in the application regardless of the number of components in which they
participate. When a Senior/Key person is listed in multiple components, the
Biographical Sketch can be included in any one component.
* If more than 100 Senior/Key persons are included in a component,
the Additional Senior Key Person attachments should be used.
Budget (Administrative Core)
Budget forms appropriate for the
specific component will be included in the application package.
The PD/PI is expected to attend an
annual NIMHD RCMI grantees meeting, held at or near NIH, Bethesda, MD. Collaborators
or other members of the project team may also attend as warranted. Funds for
travel to this meeting should be included in the budget request.
*Note: The R&R Budget form
included in many of the component types allows for up to 100 Senior/Key Persons
in section A and 100 Equipment Items in section C prior to using attachments
for additional entries. All other SF424 (R&R) instructions apply.*
PHS 398 Research Plan (Administrative
Core)
**Specific Aims:** Describe the specific
aims for the Administrative Core.
**Research Strategy:**  Applicants
must describe how the Administrative Core will manage, coordinate and supervise
the entire range of proposed activities; monitor progress; and ensure that
component plans are implemented. Applicants must explain the roles and
responsibilities of Administrative Core personnel including scientific
leadership, and administrative management and coordination of the proposed
activities.
Applicants must also provide
proposed programmatic activities (e.g., seminars, workshops or other
activities) to support career enhancement for post-doctoral level professionals
and junior faculty from a variety of disciplines, as appropriate. In addition,
applicants must describe the academic qualifications, research experience, and
productivity of mentors including those from other institutions. Applicants
must provide evidence of how the proposed activities will be integrated across
the institution.
A management plan describing the
center’s organizational and governance structure must be included. Plans to
manage and, where necessary, reassign institutional resources among the schools
and/or departments should be described.
The management plan should describe
the composition and roles of any committees proposed to help manage the center
activities. Each center must have an Advisory Committee (AC). Depending on the
scope and complexity of the center, the AC may consist of up to ten members. AC
should include representatives from the target communities, external scientific
advisors, and institutional scientists not directly supported by the RCMI. Applicants
must describe the type of expertise of the members that will be recruited for
the AC. Meetings should occur at least every six months. The AC should review
structure and progress and offer recommendations to the PD/PI(s) on an annual
basis.
Also, include an evaluation plan to
monitor progress for the Center activities. The evaluation plan is intended to
facilitate ongoing Center project management to ensure successful completion of
the stated aims. Describe how the evaluation will be conducted, principal
measures and metrics to be used to assess achievement of short- and long-term
goals of each core and project, and potential sources of data. The plan should
address administrative functioning (process) as well as scientific
accomplishments (outcomes). Describe key milestones and expected outcomes for
each area, as appropriate.
**Resource Sharing Plan:** Individuals are
required to comply with the instructions for the Resource Sharing Plans as
provided in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide.
**Appendix:** Do not use the
Appendix to circumvent page limits. Follow all instructions for the Appendix as
described in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide.
PHS Inclusion Enrollment
Report (Administrative Core)
When conducting clinical research, follow all
instructions for completing PHS Inclusion Enrollment Report as described in the
SF424 (R&R) Application Guide.
Research Infrastructure Core
When preparing your application in ASSIST, use Component
Type Core.
All instructions in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide
must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.
SF424 (R&R) Cover (Research
Infrastructure Core)
Complete only the following fields:
* Applicant Information
* Type of Applicant (optional)
* Descriptive Title of Applicant’s Project
* Proposed Project Start/Ending Dates
PHS 398 Cover Page Supplement
(Research Infrastructure Core)
Enter Human Embryonic Stem Cells in each relevant
component.
Research & Related Other Project
Information (Research Infrastructure Core)
**Human
Subjects:** Answer only the Are Human Subjects Involved? and
'Is the Project Exempt from Federal regulations? questions.
**Vertebrate
Animals:** Answer only the Are Vertebrate Animals Used?
question.
**Project
Narrative:** Do not complete. Note: ASSIST screens will show an
asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. However, eRA systems
only enforce this requirement in the Overall component and applications will
not receive an error if omitted in other components.
**Other
Attachment:** The application must include, if applicable, a
single attachment titled " Alterations and Renovations " that
provides:
A description of the functional units, including the
size (dimensions) and square footage of each component (room, alcove, cubicle)
that will be directly affected by the renovation project. Engineering criteria
applicable to each component unit (mechanical, electrical, and utilities) must
be included such as the number of air changes per hour, electrical power, light
levels, hot and cold water, and steam. Applicants must also list appropriate
architectural criteria (such as width of corridors and doors, surface finishes).
All fixed equipment items requested for the renovated area must be listed and
justified. If renovations to animal facilities are proposed, the proposed
renovations must be related to the projected animal population by species, and
include the lines of authority and responsibility for administering the
institution's animal care and use program. The role and composition of the
Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) and how compliance with
relevant laws, policies, and guidelines are achieved must also be included.
The line drawings of the proposed renovation that are
legible, with the scale clearly indicated and adequate to explain the project.
The drawings must indicate size (dimensions), function, and net and gross
square feet of space for each room. The total net and gross square feet of
space to be renovated must also be given. The plan must indicate the location
of the proposed renovation area in the building. Include the as-built drawings
of the proposed renovation area and indicate any areas that will be
demolished. Any changes or additions to existing mechanical and electrical
systems must be clearly described in notes made directly on the plan or
attached to the plan. Indicate the type(s) of new finishes to be applied to
room surfaces. Applicants must relate the proposed renovations to the research
projects that will use the facility and detailed cost estimates must be
included. Provide vendor quotes when available.
Project /Performance Site Location(s)
(Research Infrastructure Core)
List all performance sites that apply to the specific
component.
Note: The Project Performance Site form allows up to
300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.
Research & Related Senior/Key
Person Profile (Research Infrastructure Core)
* In the Project Director/Principal Investigator section of the
form, use Project Role of Other with Category of Core Lead and provide a
valid eRA Commons ID in the Credential field.
* In the additional Senior/Key Profiles section, list Senior/Key
persons that are working in the component.
* Include a single Biographical Sketch for each Senior/Key person
listed in the application regardless of the number of components in which they
participate. When a Senior/Key person is listed in multiple components, the
Biographical Sketch can be included in any one component.
* If more than 100 Senior/Key persons are included in a component,
the Additional Senior Key Person attachments should be used.
Budget (Research Infrastructure Core)
Budget forms appropriate for the specific component
will be included in the application package.
Note: The R&R Budget form included in many of the
component types allows for up to 100 Senior/Key Persons in section A and 100
Equipment Items in section C prior to using attachments for additional entries.
All other SF424 (R&R) instructions apply.
Minor alteration and renovation (A&R) to improve
existing research/core laboratories or animal facilities are allowed. This FOA
will provide up to $500,000 in direct costs for A&R in addition to the
overall direct cost cap, only in year one of the award period, as a one-time
cost expenditure for a center. Funds designated for A&R under this FOA
cannot support construction, modernization, or major alterations and renovation
of research facilities as defined in Section 10.1 of
the NIH Grants Policy Statement. A&R costs will be approved only for
facility improvements at the applicant organization. Proposed improvements at
consortium sites are not allowed.
PHS 398 Research Plan (Research
Infrastructure Core)
**Specific
Aims:** Describe the specific aims of the Research Infrastructure
Core.
**Research
Strategy:** Describe how the resources and services to be
provided by the core will act synergistically to enhance the quality and
productivity of research projects and pilot projects supported by the center.
Describe the services that the Research
Infrastructure Core will provide, as applicable:
* Resources and services that will be offered, with plans for their
prioritization, availability, management and tracking.
* Plans to ensure inclusion of infrastructure applicable to various
disciplines in the institution for the benefit of researchers and research
projects across a broad range of health-related research areas.
* The user pool for the requested resource that includes a
description of the research projects, collaborators and funding sources.
* Services for study design and analyses with methodological and
statistical expertise to support research projects, pilot studies and other
investigators.
* Bioinformatics support for analyses.
* Health informatics support for data resources such as electronic
medical records, public use sources, clinical studies, or other sources of health
data on minority and other disparity populations.
* Common laboratory techniques to be used across basic science
projects that require specialized skills.
* Laboratory equipment that will be used by RCMI investigators and fellows
with pilot grants.
* Advice that may include but is not limited to conflict of
interest, federal codes requirements, privacy and safety of research
participants, especially as pertaining to vulnerable populations.
* Integration of research ethics into core services.
* Assessment of function and effectiveness of services provided to
assist investigators in their documentation requirements for institutional compliance
or enforcement offices.
* Integration of resources with similar resources at the
institution and any affiliates.
* Support provided for operations, administration and research
activities.
* The process by which standards and other mechanisms will be
developed and used to maximize interoperability between internal systems and systems
in external organizations.
* Interactions with the RCMI Translational Research Network (RTRN)
and other partners.
* Assessment of informatics performance with external partners-
RTRN, Clinical and Translational Science Awards (CTSA), Institutional
Development Award (IDeA) Program Infrastructure for Clinical and Translational
Research, etc.
* Plans for cost recovery from funded investigators and/or specific
institutional support for the core.
* Any minor alteration and renovation (A&R) to improve existing
research/core laboratories or animal facilities.
For renewal applicants, it is important to state how
the current requested research infrastructure support builds upon or is
complementary to previous RCMI funding.
**Resource
Sharing Plan:** Individuals are required to comply with the
instructions for the Resource Sharing Plans as provided in the SF424 (R&R)
Application Guide.
**Appendix:** Do not use the Appendix to circumvent page limits. Follow all instructions for
the Appendix as described in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide.
PHS Inclusion Enrollment Report
(Research Infrastructure Core)
Not Applicable
Investigator Development Core
When preparing your application in ASSIST, use Component
Type Core.
All instructions in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide
must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.
SF424 (R&R) Cover (Investigator
Development Core)
Complete only the following fields:
* Applicant Information
* Type of Applicant (optional)
* Descriptive Title of Applicant’s Project
* Proposed Project Start/Ending Dates
PHS 398 Cover Page Supplement
(Investigator Development Core)
Enter Human Embryonic Stem Cells in each relevant
component.
Research & Related Other Project
Information (Investigator Development Core)
**Human
Subjects:** Answer only the Are Human Subjects Involved? and
'Is the Project Exempt from Federal regulations? questions.
**Vertebrate
Animals:** Answer only the Are Vertebrate Animals Used?
question.
**Project
Narrative:** Do not complete. Note: ASSIST screens will show an
asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. However, eRA systems
only enforce this requirement in the Overall component and applications will
not receive an error if omitted in other components.
Project /Performance Site Location(s)
(Investigator Development Core)
List all performance sites that apply to the specific
component.
Note: The Project Performance Site form allows up to
300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.
Research & Related Senior/Key
Person Profile (Investigator Development Core)
* In the Project Director/Principal Investigator section of the
form, use Project Role of Other with Category of Core Lead and provide a
valid eRA Commons ID in the Credential field.
* In the additional Senior/Key Profiles section, list Senior/Key
persons that are working in the component.
* Include a single Biographical Sketch for each Senior/Key person
listed in the application regardless of the number of components in which they
participate. When a Senior/Key person is listed in multiple components, the
Biographical Sketch can be included in any one component.
* If more than 100 Senior/Key persons are included in a component,
the Additional Senior Key Person attachments should be used.
Budget (Investigator Development Core)
Budget forms appropriate for the specific component
will be included in the application package.
Note: The R&R Budget form included in many of the
component types allows for up to 100 Senior/Key Persons in section A and 100
Equipment Items in section C prior to using attachments for additional entries.
All other SF424 (R&R) instructions apply.
Applicants may support for up to five pilot projects
per year at a minimum of $30,000 to a maximum $50,000 per pilot project.
Minimum total allocation to the Pilot Project Program should be $150,000 per
year in direct costs.
Funds should not be requested to cover the cost of
tuition, fees or stipends.
PHS 398 Research Plan (Investigator
Development Core)
**Specific
Aims:**Describe
the specific aims for the Investigator Development Core.
**Research
Strategy:** The main goal of the Investigator Development
Program is to support the development of early career investigators in basic,
behavioral and/or clinical sciences. Eligible applicants should be at the
senior post-doctoral or fellowship level or assistant professor. Applicant
institutions should address their outreach and recruitment strategies to ensure
that applicants from underrepresented backgrounds are in the pool of
applicants. Recipients of pilot funds will be expected to receive ongoing advice
from RCMI faculty, meet on a regular schedule, participate in seminars and
conduct their research pilot project. These investigators will be expected to
work on publications based on their pilot project as well as collaborate on
other projects. The goal is to succeed as researchers and apply for external
funding such as mentored K-award or equivalent and ultimately a R01 grant as
appropriate to their career level.
Applicants should describe the plan to solicit and
review proposals, prioritize the pilot projects for funding and to review their
methodology and research performance. The description of the Investigator
Development program should include the scope; eligibility requirements; the
limit on the dollars available and the number of years of support per pilot project;
the solicitation, submission, review, and selection criteria and process;
governance, oversight and evaluation procedures; and assurances that all pilot projects
supported from this grant will comply fully with all applicable Federal
policies, rules, and guidelines for research involving human subjects and
vertebrate animals.
**Resource
Sharing Plan:** Individuals are required to comply with the
instructions for the Resource Sharing Plans as provided in the SF424 (R&R)
Application Guide,
**Appendix:** Do not use the Appendix to circumvent page limits. Follow all instructions for
the Appendix as described in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide.
PHS 398 Inclusion Enrollment Report
(Investigator Development Core )
Not Applicable
Community Engagement Core
When preparing your application in ASSIST, use Component
Type Core.
All instructions in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide
must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.
SF424 (R&R) Cover (Community
Engagement Core)
Complete only the following fields:
* Applicant Information
* Type of Applicant (optional)
* Descriptive Title of Applicant’s Project
* Proposed Project Start/Ending Dates
PHS 398 Cover Page Supplement
(Community Engagement Core)
Enter Human Embryonic Stem Cells in each relevant
component.
Research & Related Other Project
Information (Community Engagement Core)
**Human
Subjects:** Answer only the Are Human Subjects Involved? and
'Is the Project Exempt from Federal regulations? questions.
**Vertebrate
Animals:** Answer only the Are Vertebrate Animals Used?
question.
**Project
Narrative:** Do not complete. Note: ASSIST screens will show an
asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. However, eRA systems
only enforce this requirement in the Overall component and applications will
not receive an error if omitted in other components.
Project /Performance Site Location(s)
(Community Engagement Core)
List all performance sites that apply to the specific
component.
Note: The Project Performance Site form allows up to
300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.
Research & Related Senior/Key
Person Profile (Community Engagement Core)
* In the Project Director/Principal Investigator section of the
form, use Project Role of Other with Category of Core Lead and provide a
valid eRA Commons ID in the Credential field.
* In the additional Senior/Key Profiles section, list Senior/Key
persons that are working in the component.
* Include a single Biographical Sketch for each Senior/Key person
listed in the application regardless of the number of components in which they
participate. When a Senior/Key person is listed in multiple components, the
Biographical Sketch can be included in any one component.
* If more than 100 Senior/Key persons are included in a component,
the Additional Senior Key Person attachments should be used.
Budget (Community Engagement Core)
Budget forms appropriate for the specific component
will be included in the application package.
Note: The R&R Budget form included in many of the
component types allows for up to 100 Senior/Key Persons in section A and 100
Equipment Items in section C prior to using attachments for additional entries.
All other SF424 (R&R) instructions apply.
PHS 398 Research Plan (Community
Engagement Core)
**Specific
Aims:**Describe
the specific aims for the Community Engagement Core.
**Research
Strategy:** Applicants must describe activities designed to
establish long-term relationships with community-based organizations in order
to address their health-related concerns and to promote participation in
research and recruitment and retention of study participants.
**Resource
Sharing Plan:** Individuals are required to comply with the
instructions for the Resource Sharing Plans as provided in the SF424 (R&R)
Application Guide,
**Appendix:** Do not use the Appendix to circumvent page limits. Follow all instructions for
the Appendix as described in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide.
PHS Inclusion Enrollment Report
(Community Engagement Core)
Not Applicable
Recruitment Core
When preparing your application in ASSIST, use Component
Type Core.
All instructions in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide
must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.
SF424 (R&R) Cover (Recruitment
Core)
Complete only the following fields:
* Applicant Information
* Type of Applicant (optional)
* Descriptive Title of Applicant’s Project
* Proposed Project Start/Ending Dates
PHS 398 Cover Page Supplement
(Recruitment Core)
Enter Human Embryonic Stem Cells in each relevant
component.
Research & Related Other Project
Information (Recruitment Core)
**Human
Subjects:** Answer only the Are Human Subjects Involved? and
'Is the Project Exempt from Federal regulations? questions.
**Vertebrate
Animals:** Answer only the Are Vertebrate Animals Used?
question.
**Project
Narrative:** Do not complete. Note: ASSIST screens will show an
asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. However, eRA systems
only enforce this requirement in the Overall component and applications will
not receive an error if omitted in other components.
Project /Performance Site Location(s)
(Recruitment Core)
List all performance sites that apply to the specific
component.
Note: The Project Performance Site form allows up to
300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.
Research & Related Senior/Key
Person Profile (Recruitment Core)
* In the Project Director/Principal Investigator section of the
form, use Project Role of Other with Category of Core Lead and provide a
valid eRA Commons ID in the Credential field.
* In the additional Senior/Key Profiles section, list Senior/Key
persons that are working in the component.
* Include a single Biographical Sketch for each Senior/Key person
listed in the application regardless of the number of components in which they
participate. When a Senior/Key person is listed in multiple components, the
Biographical Sketch can be included in any one component.
* If more than 100 Senior/Key persons are included in a component,
the Additional Senior Key Person attachments should be used.
Budget (Recruitment Core)
Budget forms appropriate for the specific component
will be included in the application package.
Note: The R&R Budget form included in many of the
component types allows for up to 100 Senior/Key Persons in section A and 100
Equipment Items in section C prior to using attachments for additional entries.
All other SF424 (R&R) instructions apply.
PHS 398 Research Plan (Recruitment
Core)
**Specific
Aims:**Describe
the specific aims for the Recruitment Core.
**Research
Strategy:** Applicants should describe plans in the research
strategy for recruiting and hiring additional research personnel that may be
required to accomplish the goals of the center. This may include hiring of
senior or mid-career investigators who have independent research support and
can mentor junior investigators. These new faculty members may receive support
to establish their research laboratories, acquire specialized equipment, and
support postdoctoral fellows and technical assistants. For the proposed new
faculty members who are to be recruited, the application must contain detailed planning
and recruiting activities to ensure that applicants from underrepresented
backgrounds are in the pool of applicants. Applicants must include a proposed
timetable specifying the expected hiring date for each new faculty and/or staff
member.
**Resource
Sharing Plan:** Individuals are required to comply with the
instructions for the Resource Sharing Plans as provided in the SF424 (R&R)
Application Guide,
**Appendix:** Do not use the Appendix to circumvent page limits. Follow all instructions for
the Appendix as described in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide.
PHS Inclusion Enrollment Report
(Recruitment Core)
Not Applicable
Research Project
When preparing your application in ASSIST, use Component
Type Project.
All instructions in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide
must be followed, with the following additional instructions, as noted.
SF424 (R&R) Cover (Research Project)
Complete only the following fields:
* Applicant Information
* Type of Applicant (optional)
* Descriptive Title of Applicant’s Project
* Proposed Project Start/Ending Dates
PHS 398 Cover Page Supplement
(Research Project)
Enter Human Embryonic Stem Cells in each relevant
component.
Research & Related Other Project
Information (Research Project)
**Human
Subjects:** Answer only the Are Human Subjects Involved? and
'Is the Project Exempt from Federal regulations? questions.
**Vertebrate
Animals:** Answer only the Are Vertebrate Animals Used?
question.
**Project
Narrative:** Do not complete. Note: ASSIST screens will show an
asterisk for this attachment indicating it is required. However, eRA systems
only enforce this requirement in the Overall component and applications will
not receive an error if omitted in other components.
Project /Performance Site Location(s)
(Research Project)
List all performance sites that apply to the specific
component.
Note: The Project Performance Site form allows up to
300 sites, prior to using additional attachment for additional entries.
Research & Related Senior/Key
Person Profile (Research Project)
* In the Project Director/Principal Investigator section of the
form, use Project Role of Other with Category of Project Lead and provide a
valid eRA Commons ID in the Credential field.
* In the additional Senior/Key Profiles section, list Senior/Key
persons that are working in the component.
* Include a single Biographical Sketch for each Senior/Key person
listed in the application regardless of the number of components in which they
participate. When a Senior/Key person is listed in multiple components, the
Biographical Sketch can be included in any one component.
* If more than 100 Senior/Key persons are included in a component,
the Additional Senior Key Person attachments should be used.
Budget (Research Project)
Budget forms appropriate for the specific component
will be included in the application package.
The RCMI research projects should consist of a total
30% of the direct cost per year, but not less than 20%. Combined research
project budgets are limited to $450,000 in direct costs per year (plus
consortium F&A costs) for applications that encompass one research area,
$675,000 for two areas, and $900,000 for all three areas.
Note: The R&R Budget form included in many of the
component types allows for up to 100 Senior/Key Persons in section A and 100
Equipment Items in section C prior to using attachments for additional entries.
All other SF424 (R&R) instructions apply.
PHS 398 Research Plan (Research Project)
**Specific
Aims:**Describe
the specific aims for the Research Project.
**Research
Strategy:** Specify the objectives of the research project.
Explain how the proposed project will serve to advance scientific knowledge as
it relates to minority health and health disparities. For projects in basic
science relevance to minority health and health disparities is not required.
All projects in the categories of behavioral and clinical/health services need
to address a research question and a scientific premise within minority health
and/or health disparities.
Within the limitations of the budget, one or more
research subprojects may be proposed. These may be R01-type proposals that may
be up to five years in duration or less. The projects may be R21-type exploratory
proposals designed for 2-3 years.
**Resource
Sharing Plan:** Individuals are required to comply with the
instructions for the Resource Sharing Plans as provided in the SF424 (R&R)
Application Guide,
**Appendix:** Do not use the Appendix to circumvent page limits. Follow all instructions for
the Appendix as described in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide.
PHS Inclusion Enrollment Report
(Research Project)
When conducting clinical research, follow all
instructions for completing PHS Inclusion Enrollment Report as described in the
SF424 (R&R) Application Guide
3. Unique Entity Identifier
and System for Award Management (SAM)
See Part 1. Section III.1 for information regarding the
requirement for obtaining a unique entity identifier and for completing and
maintaining active registrations in System for Award Management (SAM), NATO
Commercial and Government Entity (NCAGE) Code (if applicable), eRA Commons, and
Grants.gov.
4. Submission Dates and
Times
Part I. Overview Information contains information about Key Dates and times. Applicants are encouraged to
submit applications before the due date to ensure they have time to make any
application corrections that might be necessary for successful submission. When
a submission date falls on a weekend or Federal
holiday, the application deadline is automatically extended to the next
business day.
Organizations must submit applications to Grants.gov (the online portal to find and apply for grants
across all Federal agencies) using ASSIST or other electronic submission
systems. Applicants must then complete the submission process by tracking the
status of the application in the eRA Commons, NIH’s electronic system for grants
administration. NIH and Grants.gov systems check the application against many
of the application instructions upon submission. Errors must be corrected and a
changed/corrected application must be submitted to Grants.gov on or before the
application due date and time. If a Changed/Corrected application is submitted
after the deadline, the application will be considered late. Applications that
miss the due date and time are subjected to the NIH Policy on Late Application
Submission.
**Applicants
are responsible for viewing their application before the due date in the eRA
Commons to ensure accurate and successful submission.**
Information on the submission process and a definition of
on-time submission are provided in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide.
5. Intergovernmental Review
(E.O. 12372)
This initiative is not subject to intergovernmental
review.
6. Funding Restrictions
All NIH awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost
principles, and other considerations described in the *NIH Grants
Policy Statement*.
Pre-award costs are allowable only as described in the *NIH Grants
Policy Statement*.
7. Other Submission
Requirements and Information
Applications must be submitted electronically following the
instructions described in the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide. Paper
applications will not be accepted.
For information on how your application will be
automatically assembled for review and funding consideration after submission
go to: http://grants.nih.gov/grants/ElectronicReceipt/files/Electronic\_Multi-project\_Application\_Image\_Assembly.pdf.
**Applicants must complete all required registrations
before the application due date.** Section
III. Eligibility Information contains information about registration.
For assistance with your electronic application or for more information on the electronic submission
process, visit Applying
Electronically. If you encounter a system issue beyond your control that
threatens your ability to complete the submission process on-time, you must
follow the Guidelines
for Applicants Experiencing System Issues. For assistance with application
submission, contact the Application Submission Contacts in Section VII.
**Important reminders:**
All PD(s)/PI(s) and component
Project Leads must include their eRA Commons ID in the Credential fieldof
the Senior/Key Person Profile Component of the SF424(R&R) Application Package**.** Failure to register in the Commons and to include a valid PD/PI Commons ID
in the credential field will prevent the successful submission of an electronic
application to NIH.
The applicant organization must
ensure that the DUNS number it provides on the application is the same number
used in the organization’s profile in the eRA Commons and for the System for
Award Management (SAM). Additional information may be found in the SF424
(R&R) Application Guide.
See more tips for avoiding common errors.
Upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for
completeness and compliance with application
instructions by the Center for Scientific Review and responsiveness by components of participating organizations,
NIH. Applications that are incomplete,
non-compliant and/or nonresponsive will not be reviewed.
Post Submission Materials
Applicants are required to follow the instructions for
post-submission materials, as described in NOT-OD-13-030.
Section V. Application Review Information
1.
Criteria
Only the review criteria described below will be considered
in the review process. As part of the NIH mission,
all applications submitted to the NIH in support of biomedical and behavioral
research are evaluated for scientific and technical merit through the NIH peer
review system.
Overall Impact - Overall
Reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect
their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained,
powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the
following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the
project proposed).
Scored Review Criteria - Overall
Reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in
the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. An
application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to
have major scientific impact. For example, a project that by its nature is not
innovative may be essential to advance a field.
Significance
Does the project address an
important problem or a critical barrier to progress in the field? Is there a
strong scientific premise for the project? If the aims of the project are
achieved, how will scientific knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical
practice be improved? How will successful completion of the aims change the
concepts, methods, technologies, treatments, services, or preventative
interventions that drive this field?
To what extent are the proposed
center components and activities likely to enhance institutional research
capacity for basic biomedical, behavioral and/or clinical research and to
foster investigator development particularly for new and early career
investigators. If proposed, are the behavioral or clinical/health services
research projects likely to advance understanding of diseases that
disproportionately impact minority and other health disparity populations?
Investigator(s)
Are the PD(s)/PI(s), collaborators,
and other researchers well suited to the project? If Early Stage Investigators
or New Investigators, or in the early stages of independent careers, do they
have appropriate experience and training? If established, have they
demonstrated an ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their
field(s)? If the project is collaborative or multi-PD/PI , do the investigators
have complementary and integrated expertise; are their leadership approach,
governance and organizational structure appropriate for the project?
Innovation
Does the application challenge and
seek to shift current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing
novel theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or
interventions? Are the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation,
or interventions novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? Is a
refinement, improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches
or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions proposed?
Approach
Are the overall strategy,
methodology, and analyses well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the
specific aims of the project? Have the investigators presented strategies to
ensure a robust and unbiased approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? Are
potential problems, alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented?
If the project is in the early stages of development, will the strategy
establish feasibility and will particularly risky aspects be managed? Have the
investigators presented adequate plans to address relevant biological
variables, such as sex, for studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?
If the project involves human
subjects and/or NIH-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the
protection of human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or
exclusion) of individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as
well as the inclusion or exclusion of children, justified in terms of the
scientific goals and research strategy proposed?
How well does the selection of
projects support the overall goals? Is the rationale for selecting project(s)
in basic science and/or behavioral research and/or clinical research
appropriate to the overall goals? If multiple areas are proposed, how important
is pursuit of a larger program to the overall goals?
To what extent are the proposed center components and
activities likely to help all levels of investigators at the institution become
more successful in obtaining competitive extramural research support?
To what extent are the proposed
center components and activities likely to enhance and sustain productive
collaborations and partnerships with community-based organizations?
Environment
Will the scientific environment in
which the work will be done contribute to the probability of success? Are the
institutional support, equipment and other physical resources available to the
investigators adequate for the project proposed? Will the project benefit from
unique features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or
collaborative arrangements?
To what extent are the proposed center components and
activities likely to foster environments conducive to investigator development,
particularly for new and early career investigators?
To what extent do the institutional
letters of support indicate that the applicant institution is fully committed
to achieving the goals and objectives of the proposed center, and that the
center will be integral to achieving the broad institutional vision for health
sciences?
Additional Review Criteria - Overall
Protections
for Human Subjects
Guidelines
for the Review of Human Subjects.
Inclusion
of Women, Minorities, and Children
Guidelines
for the Review of Inclusion in Clinical Research.
Vertebrate
Animals
Worksheet
for Review of the Vertebrate Animal Section.
Biohazards
Reviewers will assess whether
materials or procedures proposed are potentially hazardous to research
personnel and/or the environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection
is proposed.
Resubmissions
Not Applicable
Renewals
For Renewals, the committee will
consider the progress made in the last funding period
Revisions
Not Applicable
Additional Review Considerations - Overall
As applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will
consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items,
and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.
Applications
from Foreign Organizations
Not Applicable
Select Agent
Research
Reviewers will assess the
information provided in this section of the application, including 1) the
Select Agent(s) to be used in the proposed research, 2) the registration status
of all entities where Select Agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will
be used to monitor possession use and transfer of Select Agent(s), and 4) plans
for appropriate biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the Select Agent(s).
Resource
Sharing Plans
Reviewers will comment on whether
the following Resource Sharing Plans, or the rationale for not sharing the
following types of resources, are reasonable: 1) Data
Sharing Plan; 2) Sharing
Model Organisms; and 3) Genomic
Data Sharing Plan.
Authentication of Key Biological
and/or Chemical Resources
For projects involving key
biological and/or chemical resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans
proposed for identifying and ensuring the validity of those resources.
Budget and
Period of Support
Reviewers will consider whether the
budget and the requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable
in relation to the proposed research.
Overall Impact - Administrative Core
Reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect
their assessment of the likelihood for the Administrative Core to exert a
sustained, powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in
consideration of the following review criteria and additional review criteria
(as applicable for the project proposed).
Review Criteria - Administrative Core
Reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in
the determination of scientific merit.
Are strategies to ensure effective management,
coordination, support and supervision of the entire range of proposed
activities well described and likely to succeed? Do the proposed approaches for
coordinating and supervising activities monitor progress adequately and support
the likelihood that each component's aims will be achieved within the project
period?
Are the proposed programmatic activities appropriate
for the support of career enhancement for post-doctoral level professionals and
junior faculty from a variety of disciplines, as appropriate?
Are the Core Lead, collaborators, and other
researchers well suited to the roles in the management and conduct of the
Core's activities?
Is the organizational and governance structure
adequately described and appropriate for supporting the stated aims? Does the
management plan adequately describe the composition and roles of the Advisory
Committee (AC) and any other committees proposed to help manage the proposed
activities?
Does the applicant include an evaluation plan that
incorporates appropriate performance targets, objectives, and outcomes? Is the
proposed evaluation plan well-conceived and described in sufficient detail to
judge its utility for ongoing project management?
Overall Impact - Research Infrastructure Core
Reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect
their assessment of the likelihood for the Core to exert a sustained, powerful
influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following
review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project
proposed).
Review Criteria - Research Infrastructure Core
Reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in
the determination of scientific merit.
To what extent are the proposed plans for providing
research resources and services (e.g., study design, biostatistics
consultation, informatics support, regulatory knowledge and support, shared
instrumentation, etc.) likely to enhance the quality and productivity of
research projects and pilot projects supported by the center?
Does the description of the potential user pool for
various services and resources support the likelihood that the core will
substantially enhance institutional capacity for conducting a broad range of
health-related research projects and collaborations?
Are plans to ensure inclusion of infrastructure
applicable to various disciplines in the institution for the benefit of
researchers and research projects across a broad range of health-related
research areas well thought out and feasible?
Are the proposed resources likely to complement and
be integrated with other research resources at the institution and any
affiliates?
Are the services for study design and analysis with
methodological and statistical expertise adequate and appropriate to support
the research projects, pilot studies and other investigators? How likely is the
core to function in a synergistic way to maximize the quality and productivity
of the research projects, pilot studies and other investigators?
Do the involved personnel have the appropriate
background and training to provide the services and effectively operate this
core?
Are there appropriate plans for assessment of
function and effectiveness of the services provided by this core, including the
effectiveness in assisting investigators with documentation requirements for
institutional compliance or enforcement offices?
Are plans for core operations, management,
prioritization and tracking of services adequately described and justified?
Are the proposed processes for developing standards
and other mechanisms to maximize interoperability between internal systems and
systems in external organizations well thought out and feasible, and likely to
enhance collaborations with other research consortia and networks?
Are there adequate institutional plans and procedures
to assure compliance with applicable federal regulations and NIH policies for
the protection of human research participants, including the evaluation of
risks and protections in project proposals, appropriate ethical oversight of
funded projects, and plans for monitoring data and safety in clinical research
projects?
Are there well-considered plans for sustaining research
infrastructure through cost recovery and/or institutional support?
Overall Impact - Investigator Development Core
Reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect
their assessment of the likelihood for the Core to exert a sustained, powerful
influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following
review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project
proposed).
Review Criteria - Investigator Development Core
Reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in
the determination of scientific merit.
To what extent are the proposed activities likely to
support the development and enhance the competitiveness of diverse
investigators in basic biomedical, behavioral and/or clinical sciences,
particularly early-stage investigators?
Do the descriptions of year one RCMI investigators
and their research serve as an indicator for success? Is the potential pool of
prospective investigators an indicator for a strong pipeline of pilot projects
in future years?
Is the proposed plan for soliciting research
proposals, prioritizing projects, and monitoring their performance well thought
out and likely to enhance investigator development?
Do the proposed plans for governance, oversight and
evaluation support the likelihood that all projects supported by the center
will fully comply with applicable Federal policies, rules, and guidelines for
research involving human subjects and vertebrate animals?
Overall Impact - Community Engagement Core
Reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect
their assessment of the likelihood for the Core to exert a sustained, powerful
influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following
review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project
proposed).
Review Criteria - Community Engagement Core
Reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in
the determination of scientific merit.
To what extent are the proposed activities likely to
enhance and sustain productive collaborations and partnerships with
community-based organizations to foster community awareness of and
participation in health-related research?
For applicants that proposed behavioral or clinical/health
services research projects, how well-suited are the community-based
organizations to promote participation of minority health and/or health
disparities populations in research and to foster recruitment and retention of
study participants?
Overall Impact - Research Project
Reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect
their assessment of the likelihood for the project to exert a sustained,
powerful influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the
following review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the
project proposed).
Scored Review Criteria - Research Project
Reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in
the determination of scientific merit, and give a separate score for each. An
application does not need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to
have major scientific impact. For example, a project that by its nature is not
innovative may be essential to advance a field.
Significance
Does the project address an important problem or a
critical barrier to progress in the field? Is there a strong scientific premise
for the project? If the aims of the project are achieved, how will scientific
knowledge, technical capability, and/or clinical practice be improved? How will
successful completion of the aims change the concepts, methods, technologies,
treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this field?
Investigator(s)
Are the Project Lead, collaborators, and other
researchers well suited to the project? If Early Stage Investigators or New
Investigators, or in the early stages of independent careers, do they have
appropriate experience and training? If established, have they demonstrated an
ongoing record of accomplishments that have advanced their field(s)? If the
project is collaborative, do the investigators have complementary and
integrated expertise; are their leadership approach, governance and
organizational structure appropriate for the project?
Innovation
Does the application challenge and seek to shift
current research or clinical practice paradigms by utilizing novel theoretical
concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions? Are
the concepts, approaches or methodologies, instrumentation, or interventions
novel to one field of research or novel in a broad sense? Is a refinement,
improvement, or new application of theoretical concepts, approaches or methodologies,
instrumentation, or interventions proposed?
Approach
Are the overall strategy, methodology, and analyses
well-reasoned and appropriate to accomplish the specific aims of the project?
Have the investigators presented strategies to ensure a robust and unbiased
approach, as appropriate for the work proposed? Are potential problems,
alternative strategies, and benchmarks for success presented? If the project is
in the early stages of development, will the strategy establish feasibility and
will particularly risky aspects be managed? Have the investigators presented
adequate plans to address relevant biological variables, such as sex, for
studies in vertebrate animals or human subjects?
If the project involves human subjects and/or
NIH-defined clinical research, are the plans to address 1) the protection of
human subjects from research risks, and 2) inclusion (or exclusion) of
individuals on the basis of sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the
inclusion or exclusion of children, justified in terms of the scientific goals
and research strategy proposed?
Environment
Will the scientific environment in which the work
will be done contribute to the probability of success? Are the institutional
support, equipment and other physical resources available to the investigators
adequate for the project proposed? Will the project benefit from unique
features of the scientific environment, subject populations, or collaborative
arrangements?
Overall Impact - Optional Core
Reviewers will provide an overall impact score to reflect
their assessment of the likelihood for the Core to exert a sustained, powerful
influence on the research field(s) involved, in consideration of the following
review criteria and additional review criteria (as applicable for the project
proposed).
Review Criteria - Optional Core
Reviewers will consider each of the review criteria below in
the determination of scientific merit.
If a Recruitment Core is proposed, are plans for
recruiting and hiring additional research personnel adequately justified in
terms of accomplishing the goals of the center? Are the proposed investigator
development plans likely to enhance the competitiveness of junior faculty and
promote their success as independent investigators? Are the plans supportive to
the establishment of a recruited faculty’s research program at the RCMI
institution? Are there appropriate timelines of the hiring of new faculty
and/or staff members?
Additional Review Criteria - Research Projects and Cores
As applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will
evaluate the following additional items while determining scientific and
technical merit, and in providing an overall impact score, but will not give
separate scores for these items.
Protections for Human Subjects
For research that involves human subjects but does
not involve one of the six categories of research that are exempt under 45 CFR
Part 46, the committee will evaluate the justification for involvement of human
subjects and the proposed protections from research risk relating to their
participation according to the following five review criteria: 1) risk to
subjects, 2) adequacy of protection against risks, 3) potential benefits to the
subjects and others, 4) importance of the knowledge to be gained, and 5) data
and safety monitoring for clinical trials.
For research that involves human subjects and meets
the criteria for one or more of the six categories of research that are exempt
under 45 CFR Part 46, the committee will evaluate: 1) the justification for the
exemption, 2) human subjects involvement and characteristics, and 3) sources of
materials. For additional information on review of the Human Subjects section,
please refer to the Guidelines
for the Review of Human Subjects.
Inclusion of Women, Minorities, and
Children
When the proposed project involves human subjects
and/or NIH-defined clinical research, the committee will evaluate the proposed
plans for the inclusion (or exclusion) of individuals on the basis of
sex/gender, race, and ethnicity, as well as the inclusion (or exclusion) of
children to determine if it is justified in terms of the scientific goals and
research strategy proposed. For additional information on review of the Inclusion
section, please refer to the Guidelines
for the Review of Inclusion in Clinical Research.
Vertebrate Animals
The committee will evaluate the involvement of live
vertebrate animals as part of the scientific assessment according to the
following criteria: (1) description of proposed procedures involving animals,
including species, strains, ages, sex, and total number to be used; (2)
justifications for the use of animals versus alternative models and for the
appropriateness of the species proposed; (3) interventions to minimize
discomfort, distress, pain and injury; and (4) justification for euthanasia
method if NOT consistent with the AVMA Guidelines for the Euthanasia of Animals.
Reviewers will assess the use of chimpanzees as they would any other
application proposing the use of vertebrate animals. For additional information
on review of the Vertebrate Animals section, please refer to the Worksheet
for Review of the Vertebrate Animal Section.
Biohazards
Reviewers will assess whether materials or procedures
proposed are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the
environment, and if needed, determine whether adequate protection is proposed.
Additional Review Considerations - Research Projects and Cores
As applicable for the project proposed, reviewers will
consider each of the following items, but will not give scores for these items,
and should not consider them in providing an overall impact score.
Applications from Foreign
Organizations
Not Applicable
Select Agent Research
Reviewers will assess the information provided in
this section of the application, including 1) the Select Agent(s) to be used in
the proposed research, 2) the registration status of all entities where Select
Agent(s) will be used, 3) the procedures that will be used to monitor
possession use and transfer of Select Agent(s), and 4) plans for appropriate
biosafety, biocontainment, and security of the Select Agent(s).
Resource Sharing Plans
Reviewers will comment on whether the following
Resource Sharing Plans, or the rationale for not sharing the following types of
resources, are reasonable: 1) Data
Sharing Plan; 2) Sharing
Model Organisms; and 3) Genomic
Data Sharing Plan .
Authentication of Key Biological and/or Chemical Resources
For projects involving key biological and/or chemical
resources, reviewers will comment on the brief plans proposed for identifying
and ensuring the validity of those resources.
Budget and Period of Support
Reviewers will consider whether the budget and the
requested period of support are fully justified and reasonable in relation to
the proposed research.
2. Review and Selection
Process
Applications will be evaluated for scientific and technical
merit by (an) appropriate Scientific Review Group(s), convened by NIMHD in
accordance with NIH peer
review policy and procedures, using the stated review
criteria. Assignment to a Scientific Review Group will be shown in the eRA
Commons.
As part of the scientific peer review, all applications:
* May undergo a selection process in which only those applications
deemed to have the highest scientific and technical merit (generally the top
half of applications under review) will be discussed and assigned an overall impact
score.
* Will receive a written critique.
Appeals of initial peer review will not be accepted for applications submitted in
response to this FOA.
Applications will be assigned to the appropriate NIH
Institute or Center. Applications will compete for available funds with all
other recommended applications submitted in response to this FOA. Following
initial peer review, recommended applications will receive a second level of
review by the National Advisory Council on Minority Health and Health
Disparities. The following will be considered in making funding decisions:
* Scientific and technical merit of the proposed project as
determined by scientific peer review.
* Availability of funds.
* Relevance of the proposed project to program priorities.
3. Anticipated Announcement and Award Dates
After the peer review of the application is completed, the
PD/PI will be able to access his or her Summary Statement (written critique)
via the eRA
Commons. Refer to Part 1 for dates for peer review, advisory council
review, and earliest start date.
Information regarding the disposition of applications is
available in the *NIH Grants
Policy Statement*.
Section VI. Award
Administration Information
1. Award Notices
If the application is under consideration for funding, NIH
will request "just-in-time" information from the applicant as
described in the *NIH Grants
Policy Statement*.
A formal notification in the form of a Notice of Award (NoA)
will be provided to the applicant organization for successful applications. The
NoA signed by the grants management officer is the authorizing document and
will be sent via email to the grantee’s business official.
Awardees must comply with any funding restrictions described
in Section IV.5. Funding Restrictions. Selection
of an application for award is not an authorization to begin performance. Any
costs incurred before receipt of the NoA are at the recipient's risk. These
costs may be reimbursed only to the extent considered allowable pre-award costs.
Any application awarded in response to this FOA will be
subject to terms and conditions found on the Award
Conditions and Information for NIH Grants website. This includes any
recent legislation and policy applicable to awards that is highlighted on this
website.
Prior Approval of Pilot Projects
Awardee-selected projects that involve human subjects or
live vertebrate animals require prior approval by NIH prior to initiation.
* The awardee institution will provide NIH with written study
protocols that address risks and protections for human subjects in accordance
with NIH s
Instructions for Preparing the Human Subjects Section of the Research Plan,
NOT-OD-15-129, and NOT-OD-15-128.
* The awardee institution will provide NIH with specific plans for
data and safety monitoring, and will notify the IRB and NIH of serious adverse
events and unanticipated problems, consistent with NIH DSMP
policies.
* If live vertebrate animals are to be involved, follow NIMHD
policy (NOT-MD-08-002).
2. Administrative and
National Policy Requirements
All NIH grant and cooperative agreement awards include the *NIH Grants
Policy Statement* as part of the NoA. For these terms of award, see the *NIH Grants
Policy Statement* Part II: Terms and Conditions of NIH Grant Awards, Subpart
A: General and Part II:
Terms and Conditions of NIH Grant Awards, Subpart B: Terms and Conditions for
Specific Types of Grants, Grantees, and Activities. More information is
provided at Award
Conditions and Information for NIH Grants.
Recipients of federal financial
assistance (FFA) from HHS must administer their programs in compliance with
federal civil rights law. This means that recipients of HHS funds must ensure
equal access to their programs without regard to a person’s race, color,
national origin, disability, age and, in some circumstances, sex and religion.
This includes ensuring your programs are accessible to persons with limited
English proficiency. HHS recognizes that research projects are often limited
in scope for many reasons that are nondiscriminatory, such as the principal
investigator’s scientific interest, funding limitations, recruitment
requirements, and other considerations. Thus, criteria in research protocols
that target or exclude certain populations are warranted where
nondiscriminatory justifications establish that such criteria are appropriate
with respect to the health or safety of the subjects, the scientific study
design, or the purpose of the research.
In accordance with the statutory provisions contained in
Section 872 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal
Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417), NIH awards will be subject to the Federal
Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) requirements.
FAPIIS requires Federal award making officials to review and consider
information about an applicant in the designated integrity and performance
system (currently FAPIIS) prior to making an award. An applicant, at its
option, may review information in the designated integrity and performance
systems accessible through FAPIIS and comment on any information about itself
that a Federal agency previously entered and is currently in FAPIIS. The
Federal awarding agency will consider any comments by the applicant, in
addition to other information in FAPIIS, in making a judgement about the
applicant’s integrity, business ethics, and record of performance under Federal
awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as described in
45 CFR Part 75.205 Federal awarding agency review of risk posed by
applicants. This provision will apply to all NIH grants and cooperative
agreements except fellowships.
For additional guidance regarding how the provisions apply
to NIH grant programs, please contact the Scientific/Research Contact that is
identified in Section VII under Agency Contacts of this FOA. HHS provides
general guidance to recipients of FFA on meeting their legal obligation to take
reasonable steps to provide meaningful access to their programs by persons with
limited English proficiency. Please see http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/resources/laws/revisedlep.html.
The HHS Office for Civil Rights also provides guidance on complying with civil
rights laws enforced by HHS. Please see http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/section1557/index.html;
and http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/index.html.
Recipients of FFA also have specific legal obligations for serving qualified
individuals with disabilities. Please see http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/civilrights/understanding/disability/index.html.
Please contact the HHS Office for Civil Rights for more information about
obligations and prohibitions under federal civil rights laws at http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/office/about/rgn-hqaddresses.html or call 1-800-368-1019 or TDD 1-800-537-7697. Also note it is an HHS
Departmental goal to ensure access to quality, culturally competent care,
including long-term services and supports, for vulnerable populations. For
further guidance on providing culturally and linguistically appropriate
services, recipients should review the National Standards for Culturally and
Linguistically Appropriate Services in Health and Health Care at http://minorityhealth.hhs.gov/omh/browse.aspx?lvl=2&lvlid=53.
Cooperative Agreement Terms and Conditions of Award
The following special terms of award are in addition to, and
not in lieu of, otherwise applicable U.S. Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
administrative guidelines, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS)
grant administration regulations at 45 CFR Part 75, and other HHS, PHS, and NIH
grant administration policies.
The administrative and funding instrument used for this
program will be the cooperative agreement, an "assistance" mechanism
(rather than an "acquisition" mechanism), in which substantial NIH
programmatic involvement with the award recipients is anticipated during the
performance of the activities. Under the cooperative agreement, the NIH purpose
is to support and stimulate the recipients' activities by involvement in and
otherwise working jointly with the award recipients in a partnership role; it
is not to assume direction, prime responsibility, or a dominant role in the activities.
Consistent with this concept, the dominant role and prime responsibility
resides with the recipients for the project as a whole, although specific tasks
and activities may be shared among the recipients and the NIH as defined below.
**The
PD(s)/PI(s) will have the primary responsibility for:**
* Coordinating project activities technically, scientifically and
administratively at the recipient institution and coordinating project
activities at other sites that may be supported by the award.
* Defining objectives and approaches; collecting and analyzing
data; and publishing results, interpretations, and conclusions of studies
conducted under the terms and conditions of the award.
* Ensuring that appropriate Institutional Review Board approvals
and certifications for research involving human subjects for all participating
sites, collaborators or partners are obtained.
* Selecting external members for and participating in the Advisory
Committee.
* Organizing biannual meetings of the Advisory Committee.
* Consulting with NIMHD to ensure compliance with relevant grant
policies and regulations.
* Participating in the Advisory Committee meetings and other PD/PI
meetings convened by NIMHD.
Recipients will retain custody of and have primary rights to
the data and software developed under these awards, subject to Government
rights of access consistent with current DHHS, PHS, and NIH policies.
**NIH
staff have substantial programmatic involvement that is above and beyond the
normal stewardship role in awards, as described below:**
NIMHD will assign a Program Official (see below) and Project
Scientist(s) to the award. The Project Scientist(s) will have substantial
scientific involvement during the conduct of this activity, through technical
assistance, advice, and coordination. Project Scientists(s) will:
* Review and comment on critical stages in the program
implementation;
* Assist in the interaction between the recipient and investigators
at other institutions to promote collaborations;
* Assist in coordinating access to other resources available
through statewide, regional, or national specialized cores or resources;
* Retain the option of recommending termination of support if
technical performance or implementation falls below acceptable standards, or
when specific key resources cannot be effectively implemented in a timely
manner;
* Retain the option to recommend additional infrastructure support
within the constraints of the approved research and negotiated budget;
* Convene meetings/workshops to address emerging areas of high
priority.
Additionally, the NIMHD program official will be responsible
for the normal scientific and programmatic stewardship of the award and will be
named in the award notice. The Program Official will:
* Assist with the NIMHD’s monitoring of compliance of award-supported
activities;
* Evaluate progress by reviews of technical or fiscal reports or by
site visits to determine that performance is consistent with objectives, terms
and conditions of the award;
* Help ensure that activities proposed for development or implementation
do not overlap or duplicate activities supported by other peer-reviewed funding
mechanisms;
* Provide assistance in reviewing and commenting on all major
transitional changes of center activities prior to implementation to ensure
consistency with the goals of this FOA;
* Link the approaches developed from the center to other
NIMHD-supported activities to ensure that information is shared and utilized on
the widest basis possible;
* Monitor institutional commitments and resources to help ensure
that the center receives the maximum chance of stabilization and success;
* Assist with the NIMHD’s monitoring of financial oversight of the
Program.
**Areas
of Joint Responsibility include:**
* Establishing an Advisory Committee consisting of: 1) the
PD(s)/PI(s); 2) up to six other members selected by the PD(s)/PI(s); 3) the
NIMHD Program Official; and 4) the NIH Project Scientist(s). Each committee
member will have one vote except for the NIH staff members, who will share one
vote. The Advisory Committee will convene by telephone as needed and will meet
in person at least once a year.
* Identifying and facilitating partnerships with other NIMHD award
recipients in the respective regions with expertise and/or interest health
disparities or other relevant resources and expertise that could be leveraged
to facilitate achievement of the center goals and objectives.
* Organizing and participating in the Advisory Committee meetings
at least biannually to discuss matters of mutual interest and promote
information exchange across regions.
**Dispute
Resolution:**
Any disagreements that may arise in scientific or
programmatic matters (within the scope of the award) between award recipients
and the NIH may be brought to Dispute Resolution. A Dispute Resolution Panel
composed of three members will be convened. It will have three members: a
designee of the Advisory Committee chosen without NIH staff voting, one NIH
designee, and a third designee with expertise in the relevant area who is
chosen by the other two; in the case of individual disagreement, the first
member may be chosen by the individual award recipient. This special dispute
resolution procedure does not alter the recipient's right to appeal an adverse
action that is otherwise appealable in accordance with PHS regulation 42 CFR
Part 50, Subpart D and DHHS regulation 45 CFR Part 16.
3. Reporting
When multiple years are involved, awardees will be required
to submit the Research Performance Progress Report
(RPPR) annually and financial statements as required in the *NIH
Grants Policy Statement*. Progress reports should briefly describe
status of pilot projects, including data and safety monitoring, and should
notify NIH of serious adverse events and unanticipated problems.
A final progress report, invention
statement, and the expenditure data portion of the Federal Financial Report are
required for closeout of an award, as described in the *NIH Grants
Policy Statement*.
The Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of
2006 (Transparency Act), includes a requirement for awardees of Federal grants
to report information about first-tier subawards and executive compensation
under Federal assistance awards issued in FY2011 or later. All awardees of
applicable NIH grants and cooperative agreements are required to report to
the Federal Subaward Reporting System (FSRS) available at www.fsrs.gov on all subawards over $25,000. See the *NIH Grants
Policy Statement* for additional information on this reporting
requirement.
In accordance with the regulatory requirements provided at
45 CFR 75.113 and Appendix XII to 45 CFR Part 75, recipients that have
currently active Federal grants, cooperative agreements, and procurement
contracts from all Federal awarding agencies with a cumulative total value
greater than $10,000,000 for any period of time during the period of
performance of a Federal award, must report and maintain the currency of
information reported in the System for Award Management (SAM) about civil,
criminal, and administrative proceedings in connection with the award or
performance of a Federal award that reached final disposition within the most
recent five-year period. The recipient must also make semiannual disclosures
regarding such proceedings. Proceedings information will be made publicly
available in the designated integrity and performance system (currently
FAPIIS). This is a statutory requirement under section 872 of Public Law
110-417, as amended (41 U.S.C. 2313). As required by section 3010 of Public
Law 111-212, all information posted in the designated integrity and performance
system on or after April 15, 2011, except past performance reviews required for
Federal procurement contracts, will be publicly available. Full reporting
requirements and procedures are found in Appendix XII to 45 CFR Part 75 Award
Term and Conditions for Recipient Integrity and Performance Matters.
Section VII. Agency Contacts
We encourage inquiries concerning this funding opportunity and
welcome the opportunity to answer questions from potential applicants.
Application Submission Contacts
eRA Service Desk (Questions regarding ASSIST, eRA Commons
registration, submitting and tracking an application, documenting system
problems that threaten submission by the due date, post submission issues)
Finding Help Online: http://grants.nih.gov/support/ (preferred method of contact)
Telephone: 301-402-7469 or 866-504-9552 (Toll Free)
**Grants.gov Customer Support** (Questions
regarding Grants.gov registration and submission, downloading forms and
application packages)
Contact Center Telephone: 800-518-4726
Web ticketing system: https://grants-portal.psc.gov/ContactUs.aspx
Email: [email protected]
GrantsInfo (Questions regarding application instructions and
process, finding NIH grant resources)
Email: [email protected] (preferred method of contact)
Telephone: 301-710-0267
Scientific/Research Contact(s)
Nathan Stinson, Jr., PhD, MD
National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities (NIMHD)
Telephone: 301-594-8704
Email: [email protected]
Peer Review Contact(s)
Thomas Vollberg, Sr., PhD
National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities
(NIMHD)
Telephone: 301-594-8770
Email: [email protected]
Financial/Grants Management Contact(s)
Priscilla Grant, JD
National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities (NIMHD)
Telephone: 301-594-8412
Email: [email protected]
Section VIII.
Other Information
Recently issued trans-NIH policy
notices may affect your application submission. A full list of policy
notices published by NIH is provided in the *NIH
Guide for Grants and Contracts*. All
awards are subject to the terms and conditions, cost principles, and other
considerations described in the NIH Grants Policy Statement.
Authority and Regulations
Awards are made under the authorization of Sections 301 and
405 of the Public Health Service Act as amended (42 USC 241 and 284) and under
Federal Regulations 42 CFR Part 52 and 45 CFR Part 75.
---
Weekly TOC for this Announcement
NIH Funding Opportunities and Notices
---
Department of Health
and Human Services (HHS)
NIH... Turning Discovery Into Health®