ASOST Grant
-----------
### **Request for Proposals: ASOST-S Grant Summer 2026**
In partnership with the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education, the Massachusetts Afterschool Partnership (MAP) is calling for proposals for the ASOST-S Grant for **Summer 2026.** This grant program is intended to help expand access to and increase quality of summer programs in the Western and Southeastern regions of Massachusetts. MAP will award programs an amount of up to **$35,000** for services offered from July 1st, 2026 – August 31st, 2026. MAP has approximately $432,000 to award to summer programs.
Programs can apply to ASOST-S funds for a wide range of services and support, including but not limited to staff wages and/or compensation, emotional learning services, transportation, and professional development. Funds cannot be used for capital projects.
*Please note: Boys and Girls Clubs and YMCAs are not eligible to apply for this grant.*
**Purpose and Process**
The overall goal of the grant is to help ASOST programs enhance the quality of and increase access to afterschool and out-of-school time (ASOST) programs in order to improve academic, physical, social, and emotional wellness of school-age youth during the school year and summer months. The main priorities of the grant are to support activities that enhance one or more of the quality criteria areas outlined in the Guidelines for Quality Enhancements in After-School and Out-of-School Time and to increase access to quality ASOST programs for students who have previously been underserved.
MAP reserves the right to change the scope and/or of the terms of the RFP depending on the number of proposals received, funding requested, and changes to the anticipated allocations by the state legislature. MAP may also extend the date for application submissions.
Timeline
* April 29, 2026 – Informational Webinar at 10:30 a.m. Please use this Zoom link to join.
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/86886100608?pwd=L8zcgFO3uVp0fWK2IahDmgbmJ0yGbm.1
* May 6, 2026 – Application due date
* May 22, 2026 – Awards announced
**Read the RFP.**
**Go to the application.** **Please note all questions have a 1000-character limit.**
**View the application questions.** **We recommend saving your answers in a separate document and copy/pasting them into the form once you are ready; it will NOT allow you to go back in and edit later on.**
**Download the budget.** **Please download and save the form on your computer; do not edit in browser.**
**Read the FAQS.**
**DESE’s Educational Vision.**
**Guidelines for Quality Enhancements**