Housing & Neighborhood Grants
=============================
The following funding programs are overseen by the Housing and Neighborhood Development Divisions.
**Notice:** ESG Applicant Proposals will be presented to the ESG Advisory Committee on Friday, March 20, 2026 from 12 - 5 p.m.
Housing Programs Overview
-------------------------
View the following PDF for an overview of the City of Worcester's Housing Program portfolio.
Housing Programs Presentation
Housing Development Projects
----------------------------
This map displays the location of Housing Development Division projects which were active in 2025. The location of each project is color-coded to indicate which program was utilized by the homeowner or developer in partnership with the City of Worcester. Click on a location to learn more details about the project, including program type and the amount of funding invested.
iFrames are not supported on this page.
View Larger Map
Community Development Block Grant
---------------------------------
The Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program is a flexible program that provides communities with resources to address a wide range of unique community development needs. Beginning in 1974, the CDBG program is one of the longest continuously run programs at HUD.
The CDBG program works to ensure decent affordable housing, to provide services to the most vulnerable in our communities, and to create jobs through the expansion and retention of businesses. CDBG is an important tool for helping local governments tackle serious challenges facing their communities. The CDBG program has made a difference in the lives of millions of people and their communities across the Nation.
If you are interested in learning more about the CDBG Program, please contact Greg Baker, Director of Neighborhood Development.
Learn More
Worcester Housing Now Initiative
--------------------------------
The Worcester Housing Now Initiative is a program focused upon the neighborhood multifamily housing stock primarily consisting of triple deckers. With the majority of these properties over 100 years old, significant deferred maintenance exists in many of them. This program aims to help owner occupied multifamily owners as well as responsible landlords gain access to technical and financial resources to address deferred maintenance issues many of which include sanitary, building and fire code violations.
* Tier 1 - Owner Occupied Rehabilitation (1 - 4 unit property, owner **must** live in property)
The City of Worcester is now accepting applications for the Worcester Housing Now Program. If you have any questions regarding the program, please contact us at 508-799-1400.
Please submit completed applications to:
Email Jared Sas at sasj@worcesterma.gov
or mail to:
Housing & Neighborhood Development Division
ATTN: Jared Sas
City Hall Room 405
455 Main Street
Worcester, MA 01608
**Program Applications:**
* Tier 1 Application
**HUD Affordable Housing Figures:**
* HUD Annual Income Limits
* HUD Fair Market Rents
* HUD Utility Allowance for Tenants
**Application Supplemental Forms:**
* Affidavit No Income
* Affidavit of No Assets
* Affidavit Primary Residence
* Affidavit Vacant Unit
Elder Home Repair Program
-------------------------
The City of Worcester's Elder Home Repair Program provides a maximum of $25,000 per unit in grant assistance to income eligible seniors to rehabilitate their homes with US Department of Housing & Urban Development, Community Development Block Grant funds. These funds must be used to rehabilitate major systems (ex. mechanical, heating, roof, siding, windows) of the home and code compliance or accessibility features.
**Qualifications:**
1. Owner must be at least **62** years of age,
2. Owner must meet Household Income Limits (low to moderate income),
3. Owner must be able to provide income documentation (Social Security, Tax Returns etc.),
4. If property is over 2 units, at least 51% of the building must also meet Household Income Limits (tenants must also be low to moderate income),
5. If property is over 2 units, tenants must be able to provide income documentation (Social Security, Pay Stubs, Tax Returns etc.).
6. Owner agrees to have a **five (5) year owner-occupied restriction** placed on the property.
* Elder Home Repair Application & Income Limits
* Tenant Applications for Multi-Unit Elder Home Repair Application
Worcester Lead Abatement Program
--------------------------------
The Worcester Lead Abatement Program (WLAP) is a federally funded grant program that is designed to assist property owners with the cost of lead paint abatement in eligible properties. Both owner-occupied and investor-owned properties may qualify. Income and rental restrictions may apply. Massachusetts Law requires the abatement of lead paint hazards wherever children under six-years old reside.
The Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes (OLHCHH) provide funding to local governments to develop cost-effective ways to reduce lead-based paint hazards. In addition, the office enforces HUD's lead-based paint regulations, provides public outreach and technical assistance, and conducts technical studies to help protect children and their families from health and safety hazards in the home.
Learn More
HOME Program
------------
The HOME Investment Partnerships Program (HOME) provides formula grants to municipalities to fund a wide range of activities including building, buying, and/or rehabilitating affordable housing for rent or homeownership or providing direct rental assistance to low-income people. HOME is the largest Federal block grant to state and local governments designed exclusively to create affordable housing for low-income households.
If you are interested in learning more about the HOME Program, please contact Stephen Connelly, Principal Housing Staff.
* HOME Tenant Based Rental Assistance RFP 2022
Emergency Solutions Grant
-------------------------
The Emergency Solutions Grant (ESG) program provides funding to: (1) engage homeless individuals and families living on the street; (2) improve the number and quality of emergency shelters for homeless individuals and families; (3) help operate these shelters; (4) provide essential services to shelter residents, (5) rapidly re-house homeless individuals and families, and (6) prevent families/individuals from becoming homeless.
If you are interested in learning more about the ESG Program, please contact the Supportive Housing Program Coordinator.
* ESG Program Guidelines
* ESG FY27 Request For Proposals
* Attachment A - ESG Budget Form Template (Excel File)
* Attachment B - ESG Budget Development Guidelines (Word File)
* ESG Completed Budget Samples (Excel File)
Healthy Homes Program
---------------------
The Worcester Healthy Homes Program is a federally funded grant program that is designed to assist property owners with the cost of health-related hazards in eligible properties.
The program takes a comprehensive approach to addressing multiple childhood diseases and injuries in the home by focusing on housing-related hazards in a coordinated fashion, rather than addressing a single hazard at a time.
Income and rental restrictions may apply.
The City of Worcester is now accepting applications for the Healthy Homes Program. If you have any questions regarding the program, please contact us at 508-799-1400.
Please submit completed applications to:
Email Luis Santos at santosl@worcesterma.gov
or mail to:
Housing & Neighborhood Development Division
ATTN: Luis Santos
City Hall Room 405
455 Main Street
Worcester, MA 01608
* Healthy Homes Program Homeowner's Checklist
* Healthy Homes Program Tenant's Checklist
Contact Information
-------------------
### Address
Housing and Neighborhood Development
City Hall 4th Floor
455 Main Street
Worcester, MA 01608
### Contact
Phone: 508-799-1400
Fax: 508-799-1406
Email Us
### Hours
Monday - Friday
8:30 a.m. - 5 p.m.