**New Jersey’s Afterschool and Out-of-School Time (OST) Professional Network promotes and supports the development, continuity, and expansion of out-of-school time programs.**
---
CHECK OUT NJSACC’S UPCOMING EVENTS: JOIN US
===========================================
05 May 2026
#### Youth Mental Health First Aid (MAY Day 1)
The Youth Mental Health First Aid (MHFA) certification course empowers participants to recognize, understand, and respond effectively to mental health and substance use challenges in youth ages 12–18. This valuable training supports staff, benefits the young people they serve, and promotes the well-being of the entire community. Spaces are limited; register today to secure your… ...
10:00 am - 1:00 pm
View Details
05 May 2026
#### BEHAVIOR & INCLUSION SERIES – Meaningful Interactions
BEHAVIOR & INCLUSION SERIES – Meaningful Interactions Positive relationships are the foundation for supporting youth, but making connections with every youth is not always easy, especially with youth who consistently show concerning or unsafe behavior. In this virtual workshop, led by our Kids Included Together (KIT) trainer, we’ll gain valuable tools and explore how self-reflection… ...
6:45 pm - 7:45 pm
View Details
06 May 2026
#### Youth Mental Health First Aid (MAY Day 2)
The Youth Mental Health First Aid (MHFA) certification course empowers participants to recognize, understand, and respond effectively to mental health and substance use challenges in youth ages 12–18. This valuable training supports staff, benefits the young people they serve, and promotes the well-being of the entire community. Spaces are limited; register today to secure your… ...
10:00 am - 1:00 pm
View Details
07 May 2026
#### NJSACC Peer Learning Community – May 2026
NEW for 2025-26, NJSACC will offer 3 PLCs (Peer Learning Communities) that will meet virtually via zoom for networking, information sharing, and more! Space is limited for these grant funded free opportunities & is first come first served, so don’t miss out – register ASAP! OST Leaders PLC Now in its 3rd year, this PLC is… ...
10:30 am - 11:30 am
View Details
No event found!
**View all events**
---
CHECK OUT THE NJSACC FLASH: NEWS AND UPDATES
============================================
* APAW 2026: NJSACC Highlights TJ CoakleyApril 23, 2026
✨ NJSACC Highlights NJSACC Board Member TJ Coakley For Shining in The Field! TJ Coakley Fun and Fit Aftercare Owner/Director   Did you attend an afterschool program in your youth? Tell us what you did…
* APAW 2026: NJSACC Highlights Krista GlynnApril 23, 2026
✨ NJSACC Highlights NJSACC Board Member Krista Glynn For Shining in The Field! Krista Glynn Catholic Charities Diocese of Metuchen Service Area Director   Did you attend an afterschool program in your youth? Tell us…
* APAW 2026: NJSACC Highlights Suad GachamApril 23, 2026
✨ NJSACC Highlights NJSACC Board Member Suad Gacham For Shining in The Field! Suad Gacham Bergen Family Center Senior Director of Family & Children’s Services Did you attend an afterschool program in your youth? Tell…
* APAW 2026: : NJSACC Highlights Justin BrantApril 23, 2026
✨ NJSACC Highlights NJSACC Board Member Justin Brant For Shining in The Field! Justin Brant Sr. Product Marketing Manager Ministry Brands   Did you attend an afterschool program in your youth? Tell us what you…
* APAW 2026: : NJSACC Highlights Kandece Francis!April 20, 2026
NJSACC’s Quality Support Coordinator Kandece Francis Shares Her Afterschool Story! Kandece writes “Afterschool helps with youth development and it can reiterate what is taught during school hours. ” Did you attend an afterschool program in…
* APAW 2026: NJSACC Highlights Jessica HeibergApril 20, 2026
NJSACC’s Director of Administrative Services Jessica Heiberg Shares Her Afterschool Story! Jess writes: “Providing and maintaining quality afterschool and out-of-school time programming is an ongoing process. The field is always changing and as such, there…
**Read more FLASH posts**
---
FOLLOW US ON OUR SOCIALS
========================
* Facebook
* Instagram
* LinkedIn
* YouTube